Chapter 1 %Death at the Museum% In the semi-round reading room of the British Museum Library, Calico Finch studied the centuries-old manuscript almost angrily. He ran a silver pointer across a line and cleared his throat with a growl. He translated and mumbled under his breath before tossing the manuscript aside and reaching for another. Though gray-haired and weathered, the renowned archaeologist emanated the energy of a much younger man. The hour was late, long past the museum's closing. But certain privileges came with Finch's station, one of which was access to the library any time of day or night. -—- Page 1 —-- Finch had spent the better part of his life traveling throughout Europe and the Middle East, recovering the ruins of ancient cultures. There were the digs in Wadi Biban el-Muluk, Rome, Ephesus, and Athens. Unlike his colleagues, he possessed neither the interest nor the capacity tolimit his focus to a single culture. Finch's specialtywas all of western antiquity!Scanning the new page with his pointer, hesighed the sigh of a weary traveler who has at last found lodging for the night. "Of course," he said aloud, raising his head from the manuscript and pocketing the pointer. He pulled a small, thick journal from inside his topcoat. The cover wasdecorated with an illustration of a beautiful woman wearing a quiver of arrows and holding a bow.Finch copied down a Passage. Due to his health, he had been living in London,the city of his birth, for the past year. In the beginning, he'd been certain he would go mad. But then he remembered that every place had been followed by another and another. And then he recalled her --- Page 2 —-- one of the worlds greatest unsolved mysteries here in London.Back in the forties, Finch had uncovered a Latin fragment about her, but so little substantiated it that he had soon forgotten. It wasn't until he'd found himself stuck in London that she'd nudged his brain once more. He recalled that her Roman admirers had been in this land sixteen centuries ago and had built a tribute to her - a tribute worthy of a goddess! Could the remnants still be found? Finch had grown so curious about the idea - about her - that, in typical fashion, curiosity blossomed into passion, followed quickly by obsession. He had studied and searched for the goddess daily, breathlessly, for an entire year. Now, at long last, he'd found the key. So consumed, Finch did not hear the steps in the corridor until he had finished his notes. Swiftly, he closed the manuscript and buried it under a stack at his side. He shut the journal, tied it with the leather cord, slipped it back inside his coat, and stood. -—- Page 3 —-- He lifted a lantern from the table' It illuminated the vast library that climbed three stories high with books. He crossed the room and entered a corridor. Unsure where the steps were coming from,he proceeded, calmly to the lobby, located on the other side of the Hellenic collection. There was a guard at that exit if he met with trouble. During the last few weeks, in his wanderings through the city, he'd had the distinct sensation that he was being observed' He had been quick todismiss the notion. After all, no one even knew about his search for the goddess. Yet, three daysago, he noticed' two gentlemen waiting outside his flat in Mayfair. They were smartly attired and' addressed each other as if in routine conversation. Still, they stood out against the drab street scene. One man even appeared familiar. Upon seeing Finch, the two turned and strolled away. Since then, he had been more careful about covering histracks. Double footstePssounded in the corridor, approaching from behind. Fínch cursed under his breath. If only he were younger, he would stand -—- Page 4 —-- and face them. Instead, he picked up his pace. The footsteps moved faster as well. Finch knew they were after him. He pulled the journal from inside his coat and looked for a place to stash it. He passed the statue of a discus thrower, marble busts, vases decorated with classical figures. When he saw the open sarcophagus, he motioned to pitch the journal; it would be safe in there. But something would not let him. He kept running. He headed for the mausoleum that he hadremoved from Bodrum. Four columns with Ionic caps stood atop three long stones about twenty feet high. Three statues - two men and one woman posed between the columns. Panting, Finch stopped at the base of the mausoleum and bent over. I must be the one to find her, he thought. Imagine, for centuries she has waited beneath this city and not a soul has even come close to discovering her! As Finch stood upright, he heard a whisper from above. Looking up, he saw the bust, a gracefully sculpted torso by Pytheos. He couldn't help -—- Page 5 —-- but admire its beauty even as it tumbled and rushed headlong toward him. Had Finch not perished' instantly from the impact, he would' have spied a tall man with a highdomed forehead dressed in a black top hat and cape, staring down like a vulture. "Carter, search him, quickly," he ordered. "Yes, Professor." -—- Page 6 —-- Chapter 2 %Ozzie Searches for his Father% In a thatched-roof cottage in Wroxton, England, Manning studied his great-aunt Agatha. She was resting in an overstuffed armchair by a large stone fireplace. The earthy smell of charred logs filled the room.Ozzie prayed for the slightest tremor of understanding. But the old woman remained lost in thought, her eyes clear but distant. "Please," Ozzie begged again. "Haven't you a clue about him?" Great-aunt Agatha smiled vaguely, stroked the tall, frail lad's slender hand, and rocked.Ozzie fought back tears. All his searching, his grandest hopes . . . was it a1l over? -—- Page 7 —-- He had been wandering through Oxfordshire for approximately a month, looking for his great- aunt, when a vegetable monger in Banbury said Mrs. Bentley in Wroxton had an elderþ friendwhom she cared for by the name of Agatha. Ozzie walked three miles in the rain that same day andfound them. His heart had leapt at the discovery that indeedit was the very Agatha, his grandfather's sister, whom he had not seen for several years. She now lived with Mrs. Bentley in a cottage outside the gate of Wroxton Abbey and looked just thesame as he remembered: a well-preserved woman in her eighties with gentle blue eyes and soft powdered skin. Mrs. Bentley had greeted Ozzie with somesuspicion, but lightened when he explained hisquest. "She's my only living relative, so far as I know". Ozzie told her woefully. His mate, Wiggins, had taught him the power of sympathy, and he used it to full effect. "Agatha is my sole chance of findingmy father." -—- Page 8 —-- Mrs. Bentley did look sympathetic, even as she shook her head. "Darling, I,m afraid the poor d.ear has not uttered a word for a year. Her eyes have gone vacant for nearþ as long. "Ozzie's stinging disappointment so struck Mrs. Bentley that she insisted he stay for tea. "Surely I can do something to help," she said. That was two days ago. Now, as Ozzie sat staring at his great-aunt, willing her to speak, he still hadn't a clue about his father. All of his questions about him banged about his brain: Was he living or dead? Sharp or dull-witted? Kind or cruel? Gentle or cold? Wealthy or poor? And the old, torturous questions came, too: Why, in twelve years, had Father never once tried to find Ozzie? Didn,t he care at ali about his son? Traiting those questions were the ones for his mother: Why hadn't she shared more about Father? What was it she'd been waiting for his twelfth birthday to reveal? And why did shehave to die before then?Ozzte swiped at his eyes, a needless gesture, herealized, given that Agatha couldn't see his tears. And Mrs. Bentley was occupied upstairs. -—- Page 9 —-- Unfortunately, Mrs. Bentley had been little help to Ozzie. She knew almost nothing of Agatha's relations, other than some stories about her brother, Ozzie's grandfather. "She was mighty proud of Winston," Mrs'Bentley had told Ozzie that first day. "Always said he had the mind to be a diplomat, but had his heart set on teaching the children." She'd rocked across from Agatha and spoken as much to her knitting needles as she did to Ozzie. "I only once met your mum, but I could see straight off she was a fineyoung woman, intelligent, kindhearted, and quite a beauty. Aggie always wanted to do more for her, but your mum was very independent." "And my father?" Ozzie Pressed. Mrs. Bentley shook her head. "If Aggie knew anything about your father, she kept it to herself." She looked at her friend and sighed. "I'm afraid it's going to stay that way. Such a pity."For the first time since his mother had died, Ozzie was at a loss for what to do. He had spent so much time and thought on his search that he had -—- Page 10 —-- never considered. what would happen when it ended. He felt hollow, as if someone had drained all the blood from his body.He felt that way still as he held Great-aunt Agatha's soft bulky hand.From upstairs in the cottage, Ozzíe heard Mrs. Bentley caII for him."Osgood, I found something that might interest you."Ozzíe shciok himself from his daze and climbed the small wooden steps to the second floor.From an old. trunk in Great-aunt Agatha's bed- room, Mrs. Bentley had removed a large, dusty leather folder. She looked at him excitedly. "I had almost forgotten. The sweet dear would pull this out now and again." "'What is it?" asked Ozzie."Keepsakes, darling, keepsakes. It's Aggie's memory book. It's been at least two years since I have seen it. It utterþ escaped my mind. "Mrs. Bentley handed him the folder as he knelt down beside her. -—- Page 11 —-- “I’ll give you some time alone with it. Maybe there is something in here. . . something that will help you," she said thoughtfullY.Ozzie thanked her as she left the room.He ran his forefinger through the dust on the cover and then opened the folder. Inside he found old letters, pressed flowers, a ribbon, a picture of a mountain, a page from a song book, an invitation to a party from 1839, a menu a narrow needlepoint flower, a photograph of his grandfather standing with a book in his hand, a newspaper clipping about the marriage of Queen Victoria to Prince Albert, a program to a playstarring Sir Henry Irving. Ozzie stopped when he came to a tintype of his mother, wearing a sum- mer dress and sitting on a park bench beside Grandfather. She was young and her eyes smiled at the camera, while he gazed affectionately at her. Ozzie swallowed and wiped his eyes, then removed the photo from the folder and stuffed it in his pocket. Great-aunt Agatha would never even knowit was missing. -—- Page 12 —-- As Ozzie returned the folder to the trunk, he found some magazine and newspaper clippings tied together with a string at the bottom. He took them out, untied the string, and paged through. To his surprise, the entire stack con- sisted of news accounts about Sherlock Holmes. Beneath that was a copy of "Beeton's ChistmasAnnual," which contained Dr. Watson's novel about the master detective, A Stud.y in Scarlet. Was Great-aunt Agatha a fan of Mr. Holmes? What a peculiar coincidence!Then another tintype fell out from between the pages: a picture of his mother, young and posed dramatically before a coach. But this time, there was something Ozzie didn't like about the pic* ture . . . his mother appeared to be flirting with someone behind the camera.Suddenly it struck him. All of the saved clip- pings were about Mr. Holmes - and his mother's picture was among them!Ozzie raced down the stairs to Mrs. Bentley, nearly panting. "Did Great-aunt Agatha ever -—- Page 13 —-- speak of Master?" The sharp pitch of his voice startled her."'Who, darling?" "Holmes, Mr. Sherlock Holmes! Did Great_auntAgatha ever mention him?" "Not that I recall. . . . Who is he?, Orzie turned to Agatha. He held up an articlecontaining a picture of Holmes and shook it in her face. "Is that him? Is it Sherlock Holmes?!,'Great-aunt Agatha sat silenily, staring off into nothingness.Ozzie dropped the newspaper, held his head, and let out a high-pitched laugh. "Please, darling, sit down and let me fix you a cuppa tea," Mrs. Bentley said, trying to hide her alarm."I must go." And before Mrs. Bentley could stop him, Ozzie was through the door and stumbling across the cobblestones, yelping like a lost wolf pup that has suddenly gained sight of his pack. -—- Page 14 —-- Chapter 3 %The Return of Alistair% Meanwhile, in London's West End, a raven-haired Spanish girl named pilar strode purposefully down the street, wondering when she would become an official Baker Street Irregular. It had been months since their first case together, and Wiggins, the leader of the gang, had not offered so much as a hint about membership. Of course, she didn't live with the boys and didn't scrounge as they did, but she had worked on some of their more significant cases with Shertock Holmes. And since Ozzie had left, she had been even more involved.It was true that she'd been a bit distracted by her mother's news that they were full-blooded --- Page 15 --- Spaniard and not Gypsies as she'd grown up believing. But that was all behind her now. She looked to see if she was being observed before turning into the alley near Baker Street. She must be more assertive, she decided. Pilar came to the wood slats that appeared to be a boarded-up window, gave the covert double-knock, and then pushed. The boards were in fact a trapdoor which opened into "Castle," an abandoned carriage factory that was home to the Irregulars. Pilar entered a cavernous room with a dirt and cobblestone floor and a catwalk framing its upper perimeter. Two large wood doors that had long been sealed made up the far wall. A formerly grand but now dilapitated coach that they'd recently named the "Grand Dame," sat on blocks in front of them. In the center of the room a fire pit glowed. Around it, most of the boys lounged. Wiggings, the leader of the gang, stood by the fire in the midst of a tale, his hands flying and his copper eyes shining. Pilar couldn't help but notice how easily he became all the characters in his stories. --- Page 16 --- "So Oz and me, we roped i'm good. I thought we were just goin' to tie 'im up, but Ozzie, he runs the rope into the gears and zip, that mad knife thrower was dragged across the ground and strung upside down like a Christmas goose in Coven' Garden!" "We've 'eard. it before," Elliot grumbled. He was a stout, surly bloke with ginger hair and scores of freckles to match. But he was sensible when it came to detective work and had a talent for sewing besides, which kept the gang clothed."But it's a good one, boss!" Alfie said as he brushed crumbs from his chin and jacket. He watched himself comb his silver-white hair in a shard of mirror he'd dragged in and then he stole a glance at Pilar. At seven, he was the baby of the gang and always full of schemes. Still, for his age, he was a competent investigator, and Wiggins relied on him more than on some of the bigger boys."'Well, considering you two were saving me, I agree it's a good story." Pilar walked over to the fire pit, removed the hood of her long, velvet cape, and sat down beside Alfie. --- Page 17 --- Wiggins nodded a welcome. "The point I'm makin' is that you can do things one way or the other. Ozzie was always thinkin'. He pictured the fix in his mind before takin' action. We could've tried to tie up that crazy knife thrower, but we would 'ave had a struggle. Ozzie used his brains, his imagination, and what could 'ave been a lost battle became a victory. That's why I keep tellin' this one. We've been doin' it the hard way too much lately. Tohan, remember when you lifted that lout from the Halepi case over your head and tossed 'im?" Wiggins shook his head: "Unnecessary." Rohan sat with his legs stretched out by the fire pit and nodded, then crossed his muscular arms. Though still a boy, he had the height and build of a full-grown bare-kunckle boxer. But his strenght was a burden; he'd have much preferred smarts. "I think it's smashin' to send a nasty bloke flyin' through the air," Elliot said, as the others laughed. "And it did keep 'im from gettin' rough with me," James added. Wiggins nodded with some frustration. "You boys are missin' the point. that was good --- Page 18 --- work. But no matter how strong Rohan is, there's always someone stronger." Wiggins pulled his hair. "If. Oz was 'ere, he could explain it better." "What he means, boys," Pilar said confidentty, "is that brains are mightier than brawn. 'We need. to stop relying on Rohan's strength and use ourwits more." "Exactly." Wiggins thanked her with a nod.Just then, there was a creak by the trapdoor, and it opened slowly. Startled, the gang spun around to see an unfamiliar boy enter the carriage factory."You fellas still wearin' the same rags you was in last year? And I thought the workhouse was bad!"The intruder had straight black hair with a single streak of white running down the front, a crooked nose, and only half a smile. In height, he was somewhere between Ozzie and Wiggins, in girth, about the same. Who is this prowler? Pilar wondered. She noted something unsavory about him, but not outright dangerous. --- Page 19 --- Wiggins nodded a welcome.  "The point I'm makin' is that is that you can do things one way or the other. Ozzie was always thinkin'.  He pictured the fix in his mind before takin' action. We could've tried to tie up that crazy knife thrower, but we would 'ave have a struggle. Ozzie used his brains, his imagination, and what could' ave been lost battle became a victory. That's why I keep tellin' this one.  We've been doin' itthe hard way too much lately. Rohan, remember when you lifted that lout from the Halepi case over your head and tossed 'im?" Wiggins shook his head. "Unnecessary." Rohan sat with his legs stretched out by the fire pit and nodded, then crossed his muscular arms. Though still a boy, he had the height and build of a full-grown bare-knuckle boxer. But his strength was a burden; he'd have much preferred smarts. "I think it's smashin' to send a nasty bloke flyin' through the air," Elliot said, as the others laughed. "And it did keep 'im from gettin' rough with me," James added. Wiggins nodded with some frustration. "You boys are missin' the point. Rohan, that was good. --- Page 20 --- "I hope you haven't weakened the ranks by lettin' in a twist and twirl," Alistair said, laughing."Uh... no... well..." Wiggins stammered.. Pilar shot him a look."Pilar's quite smart, Alistair," Wiggins recovered. 'And she's got an uncanny way of feelin' things before they happen. What do you call that, Pilar?" "Intuition," Pilar said tartly. Wiggins wiped his brow. "Right. Now, anyways,Alistair, we're all achin' to hear your tale."Alistair looked about the carriage factory. "Youboys haven't changed the place much. I must say,I've missed it here."He's not very observant, Pilar noted. He hasn't noticed the tapestries I've hung.Alistair squinted at Pilar but said nothing. Could he feel her thinking about him? Was that a warning?"Tell us, mate, how did you get out of the work- house?" Wiggins pressed.Alistair turned to face the gang. "'Twas a grand --- Page 21 --- escape, boys, the stuff of legend, I tell you!" Alistair took off his hat, revealing an X-shaped. scar on his temple. Alfie studied it in awe. Wiggins saw jagged scars on his hands, as well."The house is worse than jail because they make you work until you wear away. I knew if I didn't get out soon it would be the end of me. But if they catch you escapin', well . . . it's no good.,' Alistair rubbed the scars on his hands."Finally, a few days back, f saw my chance. A skinny old man had keeled over while movin, some boulders. They put the dead in o1d sacks and drive 'em out in carts to be buried somewhere. When no one was lookin', I climbed into the sack with the old fella, after hed been loaded onto the cart.".Revolting! Pilar thought.Even the boys let out groans of disgust."Lyin' with a corpse?" his head.Simpson said., shakingAlistair laughed. "It's more comfortable than you think. Anyway, when they unload.ed the sack at the burial ground, they were so shocked to see --- Page 22 --- me leap out, that I got the jump on 'em and that was that." "Where did ya get the clothes?, El1iot said skeptically. "Pretty fine these ønd, those for the workhouse."Pilar nodded in silent agreement. She had more patience than most for Elliot's sour disposition. Seeing past that, she sensed a d.eep sadness about him and recognized that he was often capable of sharp observations. In her mind, she added to Elliot's: You look too well fed, Master Alistair to have so recently come from the workhouse."Well, let's just say I was in more need than the bloke I borrowed these glad rags from."The boys started asking questions: "What did they 'ave you doin'in there?" "When did yoù get out?" "Where you been since you escaped?" "What was the grub like?" Alistair held up a hand. "There will be time for all that. You 'ave anythin'to eat? I'm starved."Rohan tossed Alistair a roll, and Wiggins motioned to Alfie to fetch a roasted potato. --- Page 23 --- Pilar continued to observe Alistair. She thought back to what Wiggins had told her about him: that he was one of the first boys to join the Irregulars, that he was smart and could always talk his way out of a scrape, that he had ended up in the workhouse when hed been caught stealing foodfrom a monger. She knew Wiggins was quite fond, of him, though frankly, she couldn't see why.Alfie handed Alistair the potato. "Here you go, mate," he said proudly. "That's the best you got? you,re not still eatin, rats, are you, Wiggins?,'Alfie's face fell.Wiggins smiled. ,,f've seen you cook a rat ortwo. But we'll go marketing for your Highness later." "You might say thank you to Alfie," pilar offered flatly. ,And don't chew so loudly. you sound like an animal." "Wiggins, looks like this fal is trouble," Alistair said and laughed. Before Wiggins could respond, pilar said, "For your information, I have been working --- Page 24 --- with the Irregulars for months. Mr. Holmesvalues my assistance as much as anyone's in this room." "Don't mess with her, Alistair' She's harderthan the workhouse." Elliot flashed Pilar a grin. Alistair squinted at her. "A Gypsy, aren't ya?"I"No," she said, hiding her upset' "I amSpanish." "Royalty!" Alfie added. Just then, the double-knock sounded at thetrapdoor, and' Billy, Sherlock Holmes's page'stepped inside. He wore his usual blue suit withbrass buttons and Pillbox hat'"Master -" he said urgently, and then stoppedwhen he saw Alistair. "Back from the dead'are you?" "We11, if it isn't the little tin soldier! still sleepin'in Mrs. Hudson's hallway?" Alistair laughed'Billy approached him, but Wiggins steppedbetween-them. "That's enough' mates' What you'ave for us, Billy?"Billy sneered at Alistair before turning backto Wiggins. "Master wants you to report to the --- Page 25 --- British Museum. Someone died. Got squashed is more like it."Wiggins looked at Pilar and Rohan. "You two come with me." Turning to Alistair, he said, "Make yourself at home, mate, you'll have plenty of company. We'll be back when we can."Alistair stood and put on his hat. "If it's all the same, I'd like to see Master again."Pilar and Elliot both watched for Wiggins's response."Are you sure you're up for it?" Wiggins asked.."Let's move," Alistair said, heading for the trapdoor."'What would you like me to do?" Rohan asked. Wiggins."You best stay here."Rohan nodded, and Wiggins was grateful forthe fact that he never made trouble.Pilar put on her cape and followed Wiggins tothe door, but not before she and Elliot exchanged a troubled glance. --- Page 26 --- Chapter 4 %The Game is Afoot% When Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair reached the British Museum, the building was cordoned Woff by Scotland Yard officers. Undeterred, the three attempted to enter through the front doors until a uniformed arm thrust itself before them,and a voice yelled, "Halt!" Alistair squared his shoulders. "We're 'ere to see Mr. Sherlock Holmes. "Right, I'Il lead you straight to 'im," the office scoffed. Alistair pushed his way through. "He's expectin' us, so you best not disregard his wishes."At that, the officer grabbed Alistair's arm and swung him down the steps onto the cobblestones. -—- Page 27 —-- Wiggins scowled at the officer' "Did you 'ave tothrow'im?" "Out of here, or you'll be next!" the officerbellowed.Wiggins and Pilar scurried down the steps toAlistair"You could'a done better there' mate"' saidWiggins as he hetped him to his feet'Alistair pulled away from Wiggins and spat'"I'll show Ïlnat rozzer'" He stomped to the rear ofthe building.Pilar rolled her eYes' Pride mixed with Poorjudgment and a temper wâs a d'angerous combina-tion. As they followed him' Pilar whispered toWiggins, "Has he always been so angry?" "Last year was rough for 'im"' Wiggins said sympathetically. Pilar nodded even though she felt little sym-pathy. But if Wiggins held Alistair in such high regard, maybe she ought to give him a chance'They trailed Alistair to a service entrance guarded by a police officer' As soon as the officer looked the other way, the three slipped inside,-—- Page 28 —-- strode past a stairwell, through a large wood door, and into a corridor of the museum.They heard voices coming from clown the hall and followed them into a vast galiery where two enormous stone sculptures - each one part woman and part beast - stood some twenty feet high."I wouldn't want to bump into those creatures when they was alive," Wiggins said, wide-eyed."I think they're from Egypt." Piiar remembered seeing some pictures in a newspaper about statues that had been excavated there."Ccme on," Alistair said, agitated."Easy, 41." ÏViggins put a hand on his shoulder' "Let me take us to Master. You're hot frorn that ptod. Besides, Mr. Holmes ain't seen you in over a year. You can't just run in on 'im."Alistair shot Wiggins a disapproving look but then shrugged. "411 right, mate, it's your show." He motioned. with his hand for Wiggins to lead the way.Wiggins looked at Alistait quizzically before setting off. -—- Page 29 —--Pilar decided that maybe she'd been wrong to consider giving Alistair another chance. He vexed her.Sherlock Holmes and Dr. 'Watson stood before the remnants of the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus talk- ing to a ratlike-looking man in a drab overcoat' Beside them on the flooi lay a canvas tarp covering a broken sculpture and the dead body of CalicoFinch."IIas anything been disturbed, Lestrade?"Holmes said, looking about the room.'Apart from covering the body, Mr. Holmes, Ihave directed. that everything remain exactly as we found it. I know how particular you are aboutyour methods." "Lestrade, I appreciate your efforts, but allow-ing thirty Scotland Yard officers to track back and forth through this gallery has surely ruined any chance of discovering a footprint or other evidence concérning the murder." -—- Page 30 —-- Holmes pulled out his magnifying glass, approached the tarp with Dr. Watson, and. pulled it back. Unaffected by Holmes's remark, Lestrade pointed to the top of the mausoleum. 'The statue sat in the space between the columns. Someone, or something, must have pushed itl It landed there." He pointed to an arm and part of a trouser leg which stuck out from beneath the broken marble."The assistant to the principal librarian says this mausoleum and the statues have been on display here for over thirty years, so it's unlikely that the bust suddenly became unstable. And the night watchman did not see or hear anything until the crash of the statue, nor did he spy anyone leaving the premises. It's a murder, plain as day," he concluded Holmes lowered to his knees. "Lestrade, yourobservations are always brilliant in their simplicity." Holding the magnifying glass before him, he doggedly crawled about the scene, stopping and sighing and then saying, 'Aha."-—- Page 31 —-- During this time, Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair entered the gallery. When an officer attempted to stop them, Lestrade waved him off' Watson greeted the trio with a brief nod. Why d"idn't Master acknowledge them? Pilar wondered. Well, at leasl; he didn't pay special mind to Alistair.Her thought swere thus occupied when Iter gazelanded on the broken statue and the limbsof the dead man. She covered' her mouth so as notto retch. Wiggins restrained himself from doingthe same. Alistair let out a whistle'Holmes looked at him with a scowl and thenresumed. his examination of Calico Finch's left arm. FIe lifted the hand, pulled' back the curled fingers, and studiecl them under his magnifier' He rubbed the palm with his thumb and lowered it to the ground besirle what appeared to be a leather cord. He examined the cord under the magnifierand smiled, then removed an envelope frclm hisvest and tucked it inside.Dropping back down to all fours. Holmes rammaged for several minutes before rising again' -—- Page 32 —-- "Inspector, have your men clear away the debris. When they are finished, I wish to examine the body again."Holmes then turned his attention to Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair."Reporting for duty, wtr. Ho\SfÄtrrrut, started, but Holmes strode past him and slipped behind the mausoleum. The three foilowed him to a wood ladder that stretched to the top. Holmes began to climb. "'Wiggins, please join me. The rest of you stay below." Holmes, with magnifier in hand, studied each rung as he ascended.Silently fuming about being left behind, Pilar and Alistair watched Wiggins follow Master's heels up the iadder. The top of the mausoleum resembled a small tempie with a stone floor and columns that surrounded the perimeter and supported the roof overhead. Two statues remained intact. Wiggins gazed about. Nothing else appeared out of order.Holmes dropped to his knees once more and examined the floor before approaching the area where the bust had stood. Looking down, he said,D -—- Page 33—- "It was bad luck for: Iritrch to pass so close to thisstructure." "'l'errible luck," Wiggins agreed',,Who is that t-loV with you?" Holmes turnerlabruptly and studied Wiggins wittr a hawl<1ike intensitv. "He loo]<s farnihar'" "It'sAlist:rir,l\llaster.f{ewaswithusuntilahout a year ago ancl now he's back'" Wiggins felt hisheart pulse. I{e hac-l never tolrlMa"ster that' Alistair encled up irr the workhouse' I{e did not rvant to adrnit that one of the ct:ew was caught stealing'I{olines r,vas looking at Wiggins's [ace, burt ]ris thoughts seernecl to ha.ve travelecl elsewhere' "When did he;:ettlrn'Ì" "TodaY," said Wig;gins'Ilolmes tapped Wiggins's shoulder with his longindex finger. "Your friend" has corne back at an exciting, or shall I say oytportune tirne, my boy'"Wiggins nodded."That rnan," Holmes continued as he pointed tothe resting place of calico tr'irich, "had a talent for cliscovei:ing lost worlcls. Someone took great pains to ensure he would not cliscover anotlÌer orre. why -—- Page 34 —-- is that? And what world had he been searching for? The dark waters of this case run g".p.,'Holmes started for the ladder and motioned for Wiggins to follow. "I need yoü to survey the area outsid.e the museum and report anyone who wit- nessed two or three'men exiting the building last night."tr"How do you know there was more than one man?" asked Wiggins."someone pursued Fineh to this structure, and someone else pushed the statue. The marks on the floor below suggest that two people might haveæU-rsuedbim. Come, my boy. I must reexamine the body of the ill-fated Mr. Finch and see what the Iibrarian knows about his research. There is much work to be done." -—- Page 35 —-- Pilar, and Alistair stationed themselves across from the museum.Nearby, an obese old man sat on a stuffed sack. He had oily gray-black hair in a matted mess and a dark face lined from the el,ements. Wiggins recognized him as a man of the streets. "So you know why all them police are there, mate?" he asked."Not me business," the old man grunted."How long you been sittin' here?" Wiggins pressed."Who are ya? Leaves me alone." "Tell us what you know, you old blighter," Alistair said impatiently. -—- Page 36 —--Chapter 5 %The Irregulars Uncover a Clue% The man stood, hoisted the sack onto his shoul- der with a slight groan, and walked away."You have a real talent for questioning," Pilar told Alistair as she ran past him. when she caught up with the old man, she said, "Sir, may I ask you something?"The man kept walking.Undaunted, Pilar followed. "Sir, did you see anyone leave that building last night?" She pointed back at the museum.The old man moved quickly for someone of his age and size."Leaves me alone. I'm not the nights watchman."Pilar picked up her pace. By now the boys were close at her heels. "Someone was murdered in there last night, a man is dead. 'Were you sitting here? Did you see anyone leave the museum?"The old man slowed, his brow perspiring. "Those gentlemen had nothing to do with it, now push off, you little beggars." He dropped his bag and sat back down on it, straining for breath. -—- Page 37 —-- "Too bad, there may be a reward if you can identify the men," Pilar continued."You runts payin'? Give me a bob and I'll tell you what you want. Otherwise, leave me be." "You tell us and we will bring back the man t,who will pay you." Pilar crossed her arms and looked the old man in the eye. "If not, we will stand here until you tell us what you know." "Neff o//, girlie, You have nothin'." "C'mon. Let's leave this dirty bloke." AListairstarted down the street.Wiggins put his hand on Pilar's arm and' gaveher a wink. 'Alistair is right. Let's go. He knows nothin'. Probabty slept through the whole night and is just tryin' to get a pot of honeE." Wiggins pre- tended to lead Pilar away."Shows what you know," The old rnan laughed. "I saw three of 'em leave through the museum gates together. Their carriage wasn't but five paces from me."Pilar hetd back her grin. She turned to walk away with Wiggins. "I suppose you are right, -—- Page 38 —-- Wiggins. Even if he saw something, it sounds like he doesn't know anything." "They were gentlemen," the old man called after her. "The one in a cape and top hat they called Doctor, no, no, they called him. . . Professor."Wiggins and Pilar stopped in their tracks. Professor?Wiggins grabbed Pilar's hand and yelled aheadto Alistair as they raced to catch him. "We must find Master now!" -—- Page 39 —--Chapter 6 %THA GODDESS ÐIANA% He three arrived at the museum breathless. They found Holmes and Watson engaged with the assistant to the Principal Librarian, Mr. AllegroTuttle, at a table in the manuscript room. Holrnes glanced at Wiggins sternly. Wiggins motioned to the others to remain quiet until Master summoned them. The clue they'd discovered was nearly burn- ing a hole inside Pilar. Frustrated, she directed herenergv to the librarian.'Ihin, peaked, and bald, Tuttle was a mere rodof a man. ilhe largest part of him seemed to be his marblelike eyes, which were magnified by a pair of thick, rn,ire-rimmed spectacles that pinched his nose. A scholarly earnest sort, Pilar decided. -—- Page 40 —--"Mr. Holmes," said Tuttle in a nasal tone, "as I have told you, the man was obsessed, secretive as well. Mr. Calico Finch did not share the subject of his research with anyone. My understanding of it is based solely upon the documents he selected and one other item." "Pray, tell me what you have surmised, sir," Holmes said with a wave of his hand."Mr. Finch studied every writing and fragment in the library that contained information about the Roman presence in England from the earþ years of the first millennium until the fall of the Empire. He knew the writings of Dio Cassius, Eutropius, and Suetonius well, but there are lesser known fragments from those historians and other writers that are so obscure even I did not know thev existed in the archive." "But what was he searching for?" V/atson said anxiously."I am not certain," Tuttle answered, "but I believe he was studying the Roman goddess Diana, the Huntress, the Goddess of 'War. There was one fragment I saw following his review that referred -—- Page 41 —-- to Diana's popularity among Roman soldiers sta-tioned here sixteen hundred years ago."Then there was the small leather journal inwhich Mr. tr'inch scribbled the notes from hisresearch. Its cover contained a classical depictionof Diana."Holmes removed the envelope from his pocketancl showecl Tuttle the ieather strap he had foundby Finch's body."Y€s, Mr. Holmes, that could have been the tieto the journal." "No journal was found near the body," saidWatson. "So the kitler must have taken it fromFinch's hand."Holmes did not comment on Watson's cleduction. "was there an excavation site?" he inquired as he returned the strap to the envelope'"No, lVIr. Holmes, there could not have been' Such a project would have attracted too much attention. A dig disrupts the earth more than con- structing a kruilding, and it requires many people working together. If Mr' Finch had been involved -—- Page 42 —--in excavatirrg a relic, I certainly would have known. Since he often disappeared from the library for days at a time, I can only imagine that he was searching for the location of his goddess. llndoubteclty, he was still looking for her when he met his death."Holmes condttcted the interview of Tuttle for some time, while Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair remained crottched on the floor, wai'Ling.Wiggins watchecl Alistair sigh inrpatiently. Though Alistair was his olcl friend ancl he'd missed him, Wiggins realized he had charrged. I will have to work on him, Wiggins thought. It is like starting over with a new boy who has been on the streetsalone. The workhouse has broken something'At the end of their discussion, Holmes requested that Tuttle review all of the manu-scripts that Caljco Finch had studied the night ofhis death to see if there were any clues about hissearch.When at last Holmes and watson exited thelibrary, Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair followed. -—- Page 43 —--Excitedly, Pilar shared what they had learned from the old man on the street. The news stopped 'Watson mid-stride."'Professor'?" Watson said, a nervous pitch in his voice. 'Are you certain?" "Yes, 'Watson," Holmes said unsurprised. "The very nature of this crime suggests that Professor Moriarty's hand is in it. His web covers this city. The slightest ripple of a gossamer informs him of an opportunity. It appears that Calico Finch took every possible step to keep his project a secret.Only Moriarty could have discovered it.'1"'What do we do now?" Pilar asked. "Hopefully, Tuttle's studies will provide theinformation we seek. In the meantime,'Watson and I wilt investigate Calico Finch's residence. Wiggins, meet me at Baker Street at eleven o'clock sharp. With Finch's notebook, Moriarty is far ahead of us in this game. 'We must move swiftly." -—- Page 44 —-- Chapter 7 %Ozzie Returns to Baker Street% remember ever feeling quite so disoriented.And he hardly looked presentable. His trousers were covered in mud, his shirt wrinkled and stained, and one jacket sleeve was torn clear off. He had lclst his bowler during his travels and his thick brown hair stood up in wild whorls. Dark circles bulged under his eyes. As he felt the tintypesUSOZZ,TN REIURNS rO BAKER SIREEITh" familiar building at 22lB Baker Street wascomfort to Ozzie.In fact, his insides twisted U tighter at the sight of it. He fixed his gaze on the second-story windows and tried to organize the thoughts tumbling around his brain. Apart from when his mother had died, he could notof his mother in his pocket, his ears began to ring. -—- Page 45 —-- Ozzie had stowed away on a train from Banbury but was tossed off after a short way and walked the remaining distance to London. He had ven- tured through rain and cold for a day ancl a half before arriving at Baker Street. During the entire journey, he had obsessed over how best to approach Master. There might be little eviclence, but his mother's pictures together with all the newspaper clippings, that was surely something. Ozzie recalied how when he and his mother moved to London, she'd always chosen jobs or flats near Baker Street. She'd also found Ozzie his apprenticeship to the scrivener on Oxford Street, just off Baker Street. Plus, didn't the Irregulars always say how much Ozzie and Master resembled each other? And weren't Ozzie's deductive powers further proof that Sherlock Holmes could be his father?He had decided to confront Master and learn the truth. But now that he was here, he felt sick.Gathering his courage, Ozzie crossed Baker Street. Just as he reached to knock on the door, Billv pulled it open. -—- Page 46 —-- wrong with Ozzie.Ozzie looked down at his feet and mumbiedsornething incoherent before turning away.Bil1y called his name, but Ozzie was already"Ozt Where you been? It's great to see you,mate." Bi1ly put his arm arou nd Ozzie and pattedhim on the back.Ozzie stepped back. He'd always been awkwardwith affection, all the more so now."Is Master in?" he asked, peering over Billy'sshoulder and up the stairs.Billy paused. I{e examined Ozzie's torn clothesand couldn't help but notice the strange look in his eyes. "You a1l right, Oz?"Ozzie nodded absentlY."Master and Dr. \tr/atson are at the BritishMuseum investigatin' a death. Why don't you come in and wait?"Ozzie shook his head."Ilave you seen any of the others?" asked Billy'cocking his head and trying to determine what washalfway down the street. -—- Page 47—- Chapter 8 %Pilar Confronts Wiggins% When Wiggins and Pilar retnrned to the WÀV/castle, the lrregulars were toafing about' Alistair had said he wanted to revisit the neighborhood and would meet up with them shortly.Most of the boys were plaving cards or eatingbreakfast. Pilar and Wiggins joined them at the fire pit. triliot sat nearby sewing. Rohan was lying back in the Grand l)ame attempting to decode some word"s in a book of Ozzie's. Alfie was stroking Wiggins's ferret, Shirley, whiie looking over Rohan'sshoukler. "Do you think he's ever coming back, Ro'i" Alfie asked. -—- Page 48 —-- "I just want to see what Stitch is makin'. No harm in that, is there?" "So you've missed ffiê, eh?" Alistair came through the trapdoor; his voice was full of self-importance."They wasn't talkin' 'bout yoü," Elliot grum- bled, barely looking up from his needle."Still doin' that sissy work, Stitch? IVhat you makin', a pretty new bonnet for yourself?" Alistair laughed as he walked over to investigate Elliot's work.EIIiot pulled back his right arm to slug him, but Wiggins intervened. "Easy, boys."Elliot glared at Alistair and pulled the material closer. "None of your business." "Watch out, Alistair. Elliot's got a temper," said Simpson.'Alistair does, too," said Fletcher.'.A brawl is brewin'!" said James.'.All right, everyone, quiet down and listen up.A big case has come our way." Wiggins explained the events of the morning. "Go back to loafin' if -—- Page 49 —-- you lik<,'. We neecl to rest up before meetin' Mastei'."14lliot, Rohan, and Alfie l:esurned their activities r,vhile Alistaii: rollcd out a blanket near tlie fire pit ancl closed his eyes.MeanwhiJe, Filar askecl Wigp;ins if he wottld takr-. ¿r walk with her."T suppose I could use sorne fresh air'. Rohan, keep an eye on ttris laz,yloi,. Ancl ltrlliot, I expect no 1,r'or.rble fr:oin you." "Why you always accusin' me?" ELliot mutterecl without looking up. "['m not bhe one you should woìrry about." "Ybil heard rne, and tlia.t goes for all of you. No trouble," Wiggins repeated as he exited through the trapdoor.Onr:e outside, Pilar got straight to the point. "It's Alistair. There is something about hiur I find trnsound, ancl I'm sure Ozzie would a.gree." She stopped and watchecl Wiggins's expression. "I'm sonry if this sorrnds harsh, Wiggins." Pilar paused. again and then spoke carefully. "ISesides that, I don't understa"nd why you have not offered me-—- Page 50 —--Wiggins iooked taken aback, from her comments about Alistair or her last assertion, she could not tell."'Well, it's true," she finished.At least now Wiggins understood why Pilar hadbeen after him lately. Attempting to be a level- headed leader, he just nodded as he absorbed the information. "I admit Al has changed some in the workhouse. But give 'im time. He is a smart bloke and loval. He'll come around."'Anyway," Pilar went on, "I plan to keep a close eve on Alistair."membership. You know my detective skills rival any one of the gang's."IVas that a note of doubt in his voice? Pilar wondered. "Why doesn't Elliot like him?" she asked."Old gang history," said Wiggins. "You can ask Elliot about that yourself." "Fine. You were awfully hard on him, you know. Is that to do with Alistair, too?" Wiggins shrugged. He hadn't realized it was so obvious he sometimes singled out Elliot. -—- Page 51—- Wiggins nodded again, but this time he kept his gaze on the pavement as the two continuedwalking."You still haven't answered my second ques-tion," Pilar said. in a less challenging tone' Suddenly Wiggins stopped' Pilar was $lad hewas pausing to consider her word's more seriously' But instead of answering her, he pointed to aBrick wall that bordered the north side of the street. On it, someone had drawn strange symbols inchaik. Pilar and wiggins crossed the street to get a closer look.ú o ØoØØ, á}oÑ&.ÐØ.múm. øø,Aog ,Úúa@@'@øØ'ñooøÐú4."What do you think it is?" asked Wiggins'Pilar tilted her head' as she examined the mark- ing. ,,I am not sure, but it must mean something'" She opened. her cape and pulled out a writing tab- let and a pencil from an interior pocket' She startedto transcribe the drawings'"You can write?" 'Wiggins asked, surprised' -—- Page 52 —--Sherlock Holmes paced as Wiggins, Pilar, and Alistair entered his study. The rest of the Irregulars waited below. A purple bruise, outlined in red, crossed Holmes's forehead diagonally' Wiggins knew that Master rarely involved him- self in rows, so something unusual must have happened.Holmes motioned for them to sit on the set- tee and started in an agitated tone' "Irregulars' we are changing the focus of our investigation immediately, for my oldest friend's life depends on us - Watson has been abducted!" Holmes broke"I've been learning in school. But you don't need to know how to write to copy symbols. With Ozzíe gone, I thought I should start carrying the tabiet and pencil."Just then, the rest of the gang came around thecorner."It must be approaching eleven," said Wiggins. "Right," Pilar agreed, as she finished hercopying. -—- Page 53 —-- his strid,e, and pinched the top of his nose with his thumb and forefinger' He closed his eyes tightly'Wiggins clamped his hand' on his head and turned to Pilar, whose jaw hung slack'" BLimeY !" Alistair exclaimed'After a moment of silence, Holmes went on. "When we left the museum' Watson and I contin-ued to the home of Calico Finch' We searched his papers and library for clues about his work' During this time, three roughs forced their way into theresidence and attacked us' As we fought them off' I received a glancing blow from fireplace tongs and lost consciousness.,, Holmes pointed, to the welt onhis forehead". "When I came to' Watson was gone'" Pilar watched' Holmes with some surprise' Heseemed' almost emotional'"What do you want us to do' Master?" Wigginsasked."'We must search, Wiggins' we must search'There is a place where Moriarty's men have de- tained their victims in the past' the catacombs in the West Norwood Cemetery' I have arranged a-—- Page 54 —-- "Catacombs?" asked Wiggins."Tombs! " said Alistair. "Brilliant! "Holmes squinted at the boy and then turned"Do we get our normal pay or more for sniffin' out the doctor?" asked Alistair.on'Alistair!" said Wiggins and Pilar together. Holmes paced to the fireplace and lifted his claypipe from the mantel."Wiggins, your friend wastes no energy on sen-lnstiment. I hope it makes him a better investigator. Now please -" Holmes's voice neariy cracked as he waved them off. "If we save my only friend, I assure you, you will be well compensated. Now, to work!"ch. de- iin dacart to take you and the rest of the lrregulars there." "llnderground tombs," said Holmes, "a quiet place to hold people captive."back to wiggins. "If you find Watson, summon me immediately. I plan to investigate other avenues. 'We must act quickly or all will be lost." -—- Page 55 —--Chapter 9 %Ozzie Confronts Holmes% rrom his spot a few doors clown from 22lB Baker rStreet, Ozzie watched the lrregulars: Rohan' trlliot, Alfie, Pete, Fletcher, Shem, James' Barnaby, Simpson, even Shirley, they were ailthere. Undoubtedly, they were waiting for Wiggins' and possibly even Pilar, tcl come down from Holmes's flat with a new assignment' And since the whole gang had been summoned, it must be asignificant one.Ozzie felt his heart flip-flop inside his chest'Was it longing to run out ancl rejoin them? Or impa- tience for them to be on their waY?Soon after a horse cart pulled up to Holmes's flat, 'Wiggins, Pilar, and a boy Ozzie did not-—- Page 56 —--When he entered the sitting room unannounced, he found it entirely unchanged. The chemistry beakers were still arranged neatly on a table. The violin still rested in its place. Even Holmes sat in his usual chair beside the fireplace, puffing his pipe. Luckily, he appeared to be alone. His gaze was toward the flames. The only thing out of place was the bruise on Master's forehead. recognize exited the building. The unknown boy had a white stripe running through the front of his black hair. He looks like a skunk, Ozzíe noted. The boy gestured to the others and then ran down the street as the rest climbed aboard the cart. A few minutes later, the boy returned and they all rodeoff together.Ozzie looked back up at Holmes's flat. He knewit would not be the most opportune time to approach him. Master would surely be absorbed in the details of his case. And Dr. Watson would likely be with him. But Ozzie had waited twelve years for this moment! He couldn't wait a minute longer. Gather- ing his courage for the second time that day, he pushed open the door and made his way upstairs. --- Page 57 --- Ozzíe coughed, which brought the detective from his trance."Osgood," he said somewhat casually, "you have returned from your adventures. From the looks of you, you have been traveling for two days. What fine timing." "Good afternoon, Mr. Holmes, I, ah -" Ozziecould feel his throat tighten and bite down on hiswords."You have just missed the others, which isunfortunate. . . ." "I know," said Ozzie."They will need you. . . ." Holmes paused. "IIaveyou seen them since your return?"Ozzie shook his head. He fingered the tintypesin his pocket.Holmes stood, his eyes still on Ozzie. "Pray,what did you learn during your travels in the Cotswolds?"Ozzie removed the tintypes from his pocket and without saying anything, handed them to Holmes. --- Page 58 --- As he looked at them, a queer expression over- took his face, one Ozzie had not seen before. Was it conf usion? Shock? Recognition?Still numb, Ozzie watched Holmes carefully as he continued studying the tintypes - but he revealed nothing."What a lovely young woman," he said at last. "Your mother, I assume?"Ozzie nodded."From the looks of these, they were taken some time ago."Ozzie waited quietly for Holmes to go on."This picture of her by herself appears to have been taken in a park in Oxford. I attended University there before continuing my studies at Cambridge."Ozzie's pulse raced. His mother, when she was young, had worked in Oxford. And Ho1mes had studied there! It was further evidence.Ozzie fixed his gaze on the tall lean man before him, a man who, though complimentary at times, showed him little affection. Surely, one of the --- Page 59 --- greatest minds in all of England would recognizehis own son!Holmes's hawkish gaze settled on Ozzie as hereturned the pictures. He seemed to be thinkingdeeply.Mr. Holmes, did you know my mothet? Ozzieimagined himself saying boldly' But he could not make the word.s exit his mouth' If Master knew her, he would have said so, wouldn't he? Unless, of course, he was hiding something' Masterwas often secretive. Could he indeed be Ozzie's father but not want Ozzie to know it? And ifso, why?"Right," said Holmes, clapping his hands'"Osgood, there is much work to be done' The Irregulars are faced with what may be their great- est challenge yet. Without your assistance, I fear some of them may not survive this case'"Ozzie tried to listen, but Master's words did notpenetrate or inspire him. He did not care about hiswork right now."Osgood", did you hear me? Your friends' livesmay be in danger." --- Page 60 --- S"Very good. I sense there are things you may wish to share about your adventures in Oxford- shire. When this case is over, we can discuss them' But now, you must catch a hansom. You under- stand?" Holmes handed him some coins.Ozzie rubbed his eyes. Was that concern in Master's voice? He had never heard that tone from him before."What do you need me to do?" Ozzie asked. Holmes described the abduction of Watson, as well as the circumstances surrounding the death ofCalico Finch."Meet the Irregulars at the catacombs at once.This case is different from others. The lrregulars themselves may be targets here. You boys know how to work in the shadows and observe, but how to respond when you are the game is an altogether different matter. The gang will need your quick thinking and sound judgment."Holmes struck a match and relit his pipe. He studied Ozzie carefully, meeting his gaze and hold- ing it. "I trust you are up to the task."Ozzie didn't think he was but nodded anyway. --- Page 61 --- Ozzie looked up at Holmes and wondered who he really was. Then he fled down the steps to the street, where the cold air punched his cheeks and the swirl of the loud, busy thoroughfare made him retch. --- Page 62 --- Chapter 10 %The Irregulars Search the Catacombs% The horse cart left the lrregulars in Lambeth at the gates of the cemetery. The grounds were well groomed with clipped shrubbery like inthe finer parks in London. Only the rows of ornate stone crypts on either side of the paths reminded Wiggins where they really were.Like a puppy released from its pen, Alfie ran down the path and across the lawn. His oversized ears nearly flapped."Doesn't he know this is a sacred place?" Alistair said."I d,oubt the people who live 'ere *ind.," Elliot returned. --- Page 63 --- Alistair glared at Elliot. "'We are workin' 'ere, and needn't be tossed out by the watchman because of that little git;'Pilar watched Alfie frolicking about and hated to admit that Alistair was right. Besides drawing attention, Alfie's antics were disrespectful.Wiggins, thinking the same thing, motioned to Alfie to come back. When he did, his face was flushed from the cold. He handed Pilar a bright red maple leaf and bowed. "For your loveliness," he said, then turned to Wiggins. "I was just investigatin' the place, boss. It's safe for us to proceed."Wiggins cuffed him lightly on the shoulder. "Elf, vou just stick with us."The gang walked the paths. Though still early in the day, a dark gray fog enveloped them and fiiled them with dread. They shivered in their thin outer coats and glanced about nervously, some half expecting the dead to rise from their graves and snatch them."You sure this is the right spot?" asked Elliot. "You afraid, Stitch?" Alistair laughed. --- Page 64 --- At that, Elliot grabbed Alistair by the back of his coat and swung him into a shrub. He fell through it titl his bottom hit the ground. His coat remained strung up on the branches.Even though Pilar had little patience for the boys' fighting, she found it hard not to smile."I'11 take no more lip from you!" EIIiot's face burned red. He hovered over the shrub and clenched a fist above his head like a hammer. Wiggins stepped in and pushed Elliot back. Then he offered Alistair a hand.Alistair cursed but accepted it. Twigs and leaves hung from his clothing."'We're tryin' to find Dr. Watson 'ere, and Master's dependin' on us. There's no time for non- sense. Elliot, if you can't work with Alistair, go back to the Castle and wait." Wiggins's voice rose with agitation.Elliot grew redder. He stomped down the path and vanished around a crypt.Pilar watched him go, sorry she didn't have a qhance to ask him about the o1d gang history that Wiggins had mentioned. --- Page 65 --- Wiggins turned to A1istair. ,,Mate, you aren,tyourself. It's not like you to mistreat people, sobugger off,Iwon't have it. If you need a break, we,ll all understand."Pilar and the others waited to see what Aristair would do.Casually, he brushed himself off. ,Aw, Wigs, I was just havin' some fun with 'im. you all seem aÌittle softer since I been gone. It must be the girly.,, He smirked at pilar."If you spent as much time thinking about the case as you did disrupting things, you might make a better investigator," pilar countered.James and Shem whisfled. Even Rohan's eyes twinkled. Alfie took pilar,s hand and patted it.ïViggins laughed good_naturedly. ,,I told younot to mess with her, mate." He slapped Alistair on the back.Alistair gave piiar a dark look, and she shotone back. What will it take, she wondered, forWiggins to come to his senses and rid the gang of this mofeta? --- Page 66 --- They continued in silence down the path until they came to a chapel."I bet the entrance to the catacombs is in here." Without hesitation, Pilar strode through the chapel doors. Wiggins shook his head at her hastiness but motioned to the others to follow.The chapel was small, with stained-glass win- dows, a few statues, some lanterns hanging on hooks, and an altar. There was no one inside.Pilar led them through the chapel, past the altar, and into a back room where a stairway descended."Rohan, Aifie, and Pete, stay up 'ere and watch for anyone comin'. If we are not back shortly, go to Master and report. Do not come after us. The rest of you are with me."Rohan and Pete nodded. Alfie scuffed his moc- casins on the ground. "Boss, I want to go down and see the cat's comb."Wiggins shook his head. "Next time, Elf." "You blokes get all the fun." "We need your eyes up here," Pilar assured him, --- Page 67 --- and then whispered, ,,you know how pete is always losing focus."Alfie beamed. ,,Right. you can count on me."Pilar, Wiggins, and Alistair lifted the lan_ terns, lighted them, and then proceeded d"own the stairway. Shem, Fletcher, Simpson, and Barnaby followed.They entered a wide brick passage with a long vaulted stone ceiiing. On either side, every twenty feet or so, smaller brick passageways shot off. Soon they came to a huge metal contraption that climbed all the way up to the ceiling. Wiggins approachedit and gazed up."W'hat is it, mate?" Shem asked.'A coffin lift. It goes up to the altar in thechapel. After the service, they lower the coffins down'ere." "Nice way to catch a ride,,' said James.They continued on and turned down.one of the side passages. Grand granite arches, each with aniron-bar door, extended down either side.Pilar stepped up to one of the doors and held up her lantern, illuminating a brick bay. She --- Page 68 --- gasped and the rest of the Irregulars crowded around her.Floor-to-ceiling shelves filled the space. Each clne contained coffins, their bottom ends exposed, two or three to a shelf."'What kind of place is this?" said Barnaby, noticeably spooked. "Don't coffins belong in the ground?"Pilar stepped back and held up the lantern to light the granite arch. Carved across the top was the name HENLEv. "It must be a family chamber," she said.Wiggins, his lantern held aloft, continued down the passage. All the granite arches held bays filled with coffins.The gang followed him, peering through the bars into each bay as they walked. A short distance down, the passage ended."No one is here," said Alistair. "Holmes sent us all this way for nothin'." "'We should return to the main passage and investigate each tunnel until we have searched the whole place," Piiar said with conviction. --- Page 69 --- Wiggins agreed. "It's the only way we can be certain Dr. 'Watson is not 'ere."Just as Wiggins finished his words, they heard a hum coming down the tunnel.Wiggins moved swiftlv back toward the main passage and motioned to the rest to follow.As soon as they arrived, the coffin lift began to lower. Light streamed into the passage from above, casting a fuzzy glow upon six older boys standing on the iift.Wiggins signaled the irregulars to scatter, but the older boys jumped off and circled them. "Runts! What yous doin' 'ere?" they yelled.The boys were dressed in black wool suits with matching bowlers and no outer jackets. They appeared to be five or six years older than most of the Irregulars.Before Wiggins could gather his wits, they shoved and corralled the gang into a tight group.A giant who stood nearþ seven feet tall and was presumably the leader said, "Didn't yous 'ear me? I said, ''What yous doin' 'ere?"' --- Page 70 --- Wiggins stepped forward. "Lookin' for our dearþ departed," he offered as casually as he could. He had learned from his years on the streets never to show fear.One of the older boys tried to push him back into the group, but Wiggins deflected his hands. The boy grabbed Wiggins by the collar until the giant stepped in and eased him off."Listen, runts, this 'ere is our land. Go back to the other side of the river where yous are safe." He removed his bowler and revealed a shinv bald head with a throbbing blue vein snaking down his left temple. He dusted off his hat and then flipped it back onto his head."Who are vou?" Wiggins asked."Weez from Lambeth Marsh. They calls us the Gents. I'm the duke. We 'ave our way 'bout things, and nobody crosses us, so I'd appreciate a little less lip. Yous don't want things to get unpleasant, right?"The duke grabbed Wiggins by the front of his coat and lifted him onto his toes. --- Page 71 --- "Let him go!" Pilar demanded.The duke ignored her and put his face right upto Wiggins's. "'What yous lookin'for?" he hissed. In that moment, Shirley slipped out from Wiggins's coat pocket and bit the duke on the hand. He yelped and swung about. He tried to pull the ferret off with his other hand. Another one of the Gents stepped in to help, but the duke was flapping his arms about so violently that he almostknocked him over.In the confusion, Pilar shouted, "Run!" Sheturned and raced toward the stairway. Wiggins and the rest of the lrregulars pushed past the Gents and followed.As Pilar climbed the stairs, she met Alfie, Rohan, and Pete coming down. "Turn back!" she ordered them. She did not see the three Gents right behind them."Where do yous think yer goin'?" said one. He pushed Alfie and Pete in front of her. Even Rohan was no match for the three older blokes. wiggins found himself wishing Elliot were still with them. Together, thev might have stood a --- Page 72 --- chance. But the Irregulars were forced back down into the catacombs.By now, Shirley häd released the duke's handand run off.Upon seeing Wiggins, the duke spit and told theGents to shove the Irregulars along. He wrapped a handkerchief tightly around his hand'Alistair tried to punch one of the Gents and received a fist in the stomach. He buckled over.Two Gents picked him up and dragged hini as the duke raised his good hand. "No more playin'." --- Page 73 --- TFn" Gents herded the lrregulars through thell catacombs into one of the coffin bays. Alistair,ltU still bent over, had to be pul1erl, and it took twoGents to muscle Rohan inside. 'Wiggins kept Pilar in front of him to protect her.When they were all in the bay, the duke ciosed the iron-bar door, then chained and padlocked it. Gazing through the bars, he said, "Maybe sittin' in this cell will make yous want to talk 'bout why yous are 'ere. weez might not be so polite when weez return." The duke paused and studied Pilaras if seeing her for the first time. He winked and tipped his bowler to her. --- Page 74 --- Chapter 11 %Locked in the Catacombs% "Quit starin' at her, you lout, or I'11 clobber Yoü," Alfie said angrily before Wiggins clapped a hand over his mouth.The duke laughed and placed his lit lantern on the ground, out of reach of the irregulars. "When it burns out, yous 'ave to wait for us in the dark. Unless the rats get you first'" He laughed again.Stepping away from the door, the duke raised his good hand, snapped his fingers, and yelled, "Gents!" At that, the black-suited boys formed twolines and followed him out of the passageway. "What are we gonna do now?" asked Rohan ashe shook the door.Wiggins reached through the bars and exam-ined the padlock."Did you see the size of that bloke?" said James'"His hands were bigger than my feet." "What about those clothes? They looked like agentleman's army," said Alistair, who seemed to be recovering from the blows'Pilar couldn't help but agree with Alistair's observation. But how could those roughs afford --- Page 75 --- such respectable attire? she wondered. Either they were crooks, or someone was paying them. But who? She was considering the possibilities as she moved toward Wiggins. He had taken a wire out of his pocket and was turning it in the keyhole of the padlock."Can you get us out?" she asked."I don't know, I never really picked a lock. I just seen how it's done. I wish Oz were 'ere."Pilar nodded. "Thank you for protecting me from those boys," she said quietly.Wiggins stopped and looked at her. ,,I haven’t done a very good job of protectin' anyone, or we wouldn't be in 'ere."He went back to his work.The lantern cast a dim light in the chamber. As 'rli/iggins worked and the other boys huddled together grumbling, pilar looked around. Coffinslined the shelves on one wail. There did not appear to be a way out."Wiggins," she said, ,,I think we should see if there are any vents we can use to escape." --- Page 76 --- Wiggins pocketed' the wire in frustration'"Good idea."Pilar put a hand on Alfie's shouider' "We needyou to climb the shelves and see what's in there'" "Between the coffins?" Alfie squeaked'"You're the only one who can fit"' said Pilar'and then added in a whisper, "and you are braverthan the rest of this lot'"Alfie grinned proudly' "Right' Where do westart? "The first shelf was only a few feet off the ground'Alfie scurried' up and slid between two coffins' After a few minutes, he crawled back out' shakinghis head."Nothini in there. The walls are solid'"Rohan hoisted Alfie up to the next shelf and theoneafterthat.Eachtime,hecamebackshakinghis heacl.As Wiggins waited for Alfie's next return' heWondered"how the Gentsk new they were here. Had they been followed? He hadn't seen anyone on the streets watching them before they entered the --- Page 77 --- cemetery or anyone in the cemetery either. If they hadn't been followed, how did the Gents know where to find them? And where was Eltriot?The lantern grew dimmer. How long wouldit be before they were swallowed by completedarkness?"Maybe we should yeli for help," said Fletcher. "No one would 'ear us all the way down 'ere,"said Simpson.'And it might just bring those Gents backsooner," said Alistair.Alfie climbed off the last shelf and shook offthe dust and cobwebs."'What are they goin' to do to us when they comeback?" asked Pete."What if they don't come back . . .?" saidBarnaby. "We'll starve." "Don't worry, mate. When this is all over, I'11cook up a feast to celebrate our escape from those Gents," Wiggins promised. But his voice didn't sound convincing, even to himself.Just then, a lantern light came bobbing down the corridor toward them. --- Page 78 --- Wiggins motioned to the irregulars to besilent.Slowly, the glow grew closer. When at last itapproached, several Irregulars gasped, as if seeing a ghost."Ozziet " yelled Alfie.The rest of the gang crowded around the door and talked over one another."What are You doin' 'ere?" "How did you find us?" "You look awful." "You're even skinnier than before." "What happened to You?"Wiggins quieted them and stuck his handthrough the bars. Ozzie shook it. "Welcome back, mate!" "Now that's a more proper greeting." Ozzie heldup the lantern and grinned. Shirley was perched on his shoulder."How did you know where to find us?" Wigginsasked."Master -" Pilar and Ozzie said at the sametime, and laughed. --- Page 79 --- Pilar studied her friend. His eyes looked sunken, his cheeks hollow, and something about him seemed distant' Still, she feit herself relax in his presence. Surely Ozzre would be able to getthem out of here.,,After Mastel: paid rnv transport here," Ozzíe said", "Shirley led me to you' She knows the smell of bangers <-rn Wiggins's fingers like she knows her own name."At that, Shirely climbed off of Ozzie and scur-ried. over to Wiggins who scooped her up andcradled her'."Ilow did you end up in here?" Ozzie asked'examining the door lock'Wiggins explainecl the events of the past hour' Meanwhile, Alistair pushed his way to the front'"'Who's this?" "This is the famous detective, Osgoocl Manning'"Wiggins made a grand' sweep of his arm' "lle has just returned from an important search which we'Il talk about after he helps us get out of 'ere'Any ideas, Oz?" --- Page 80 --- "lIang on." Ozzie disappeared down the pas- sage and returned a minute later dragging a sledge- hammer. "This should do the job." "If you can lift it." Alistair laughed.Ozzie put down his lantern and heaved the ham- mer onto his shoulder. His knees buckled from the weight of it.When he regained steadiness, he swung the hammer down. It hit the chain but missed the lock. Both Ozzie and the hammer slammed the ground with a solid thud.Alistair laughed again. "This bloke's definitely not famous for his strength."Alfie and Pilar giared at him. But Ozzie just stood and tried again. This time he missed the lock and chain entirely and hit the wa1l, which set off a spark."Keep trying," Pilar encouraged.By now, Ozzie was panting from the effort. Forthe first time since he'd been back, he realized how tired he was from his travels. His body ached to lie down and sleep. --- Page 81 --- "We'11 never get out of here"' said Alistair bitterly."Not with that attitude," Pilar growlecl. "Come on, oz," Wiggins encouraged him' "Let's all go home and l'11 roast us some bangers. "Ozzie grinned and lifted the hammer one more time. "Ayyy!" he groaned' as he brought it down. The hammer hit the lock right at its joint. It split open. Ozzie slammed the dirt from the momentum. The Irregulars howled' with excitement as Rohan and Wiggins pushed open the iron door and helped Ozzieto his feet. "Nice work, mate!" Pilar hugged him. He was too tired to be embarrassed. "Come on. We have to search for Dr. Watson", said Wiggins. "There are more lanterns at the end of this passage," Ozzie told him' "If we split up' I am sure wecan search the Place swiftlY." "What about the Gents?" said Alfie. "Let's be quick about it," said Wiggins as hewaved the others to follow' --- Page 82 --- The catacombs were less mazelike than the Irregulars thought. The main passage had four smaller passages that shot off on either side. Each of the smaller passages contained ten chambers.The group split up. In the center of the main passage, Ozzie, wiggins, and Pilar came upon a stone arch that rose ten feet from the floor. It was mad.e of brick and stone but was more worn than anything else down there."'What do you make of it?" said Wiggins."It looks quite old, ancient actually," Ozzie observed.They were circling the arch and studying it when the rest of the gang arrived. No one had located'Watson.Following Wiggins's instructions, they returned to the stairway and moved quietly, listening for the Gents as they made their way up to the chapel.Once inside, Ozzíe's eye was drawn to a statue with a velvet cloth resting beneath it. The cloth had --- Page 83 --- been folded oddly - in the shape of an arrow' Ozzie flipped up the corner and discovered several folded sheets of paper. Carefully, he opened them' His brow furrowed as he studied the words inside'"What is it, Oz?" Wiggins asked" "I recognize this hand"writing," said Ozzíe' "It's a message from Dr. Watson." --- Page 84 --- Chapter 12 %Watson's Riddle% U U ends WelI. Why: next."Holmes read the sheet of paper for a second time as Ozzie, Pilar, and Wiggins sat before the fire warming their hands. Wiggins had sent the rest of the gang including a protesting Alistair back to the Castle. Holmes placed the paper, along withthe blank sheet that accompanied it, on the mantel and paced the room.'Ah, 'Watson, you are still well," he said with a relieved sigh. 'And you 1eft us a clue to where they are taking you." --- Page 85 --- Ozzie watched' Holmes carefully to see if he acted any differently toward him' but he detected nothing. "What do the words mean?" Pilar asked." Watson has left us a riddle indicating his whereabouts. Had his captors discovered the note before you did. The meaning of his message wouldnot be clear to them'"Holmes turned to Ozzte' "What do you make ofit, Osgood?"Snapping to attenti on' Ozzie stood and took thepages from the mantle' A nervousness rose in his chest. Perhaps if he impressed' Master' he would be more willing to speak openly about the past'"The writing is most definitely Dr' Watson's' though it is messier than usual' I don't under- stand why because it d'oes not look as though it waswritten hastily, nor d'o the letters suggest any agitation on the Doctor's part' The scrawl looksintentional."Holmes watched Ozzie but remained expres-sionless. "Those months as a scrivener's apprentice --- Page 86 --- "Surely Dr. Watson refers to a famous 'William' And William the Conqueror was very famous. He won the Battle of Normandy and brought the French here to England."Holmes gave a slight nod, one of approval, Pilar thought.and forger gave you a valuable tool, Osgood. Pray, continue." "The riddle is more of apuzzle for me. "William's square, William's square' . . ." Ozzíe stared at the bullet holes in the wall, concentrating. Wiggins watched his friend, amazed by his powers. As they'd returned from the cemetery, Ozzie.had explained about not finding his father, but he seemed distracted,like he was holding something back. Wiggins was happy to see that now, infront of Master, he was more himself. Pilar broke the silence. "Could it be William the Conqueror? "Ozzie turned to her, as did Holmes andWiggins. "I read about him in school," Pilar explained. --- Page 87 --- Wiggins nodded. "But what's his 'square'?" Ozzie's eyes sparked. "The original part of the Tower of London is square, and it was built by William the Conqueror!" "Excellent, Irregulars," said Holmes. Pilar smiled. It was the first time anyone hadreferred to her as an Irregular - and Master himself had said it! Pilar's satisfaction was not lost on Wiggins, who would not meet her gaze. Holmes continued" "The Tower of London consists of many towers and walls. The original castle - the white square structure at its center - was erected by william the Conqueror some eight hundred years ago' Two walls circle it. Nineteen towers rise up from the site' Watson's riddle is' infact, quite simple: 'William's square' circled twice, nineteen in one - of course it is the Tower. "Now," said Holmes, "can you decipher the restof it? "Ozzie, Pilar, and Wiggins sat silently' Why wasMaster testing them like this? Wiggins wondered. Why would" he delay the search for his friend? Hecrossed his arms impatiently. --- Page 88 --- Holmes paused a minute more. When there was no response, he said, "One of the more famous Towers is called 'The Bloody Tower.' Years ago, two young princes were held there in captivity. Watson is citing the area within the complex where he believes he will be held."Ozzie read the message again, "All's Well that ends Well. 'Perhaps we should be looking for a well of some sort." "Exactly," Holmes said. "The capitalized words in that phrase are a directive. The last clue, 'next,' tells us that the next place they will take Watson is the Tower. And that is where vour search will continue." "Why would they take Dr. Watson there?" Pilar asked. Holmes paced to the windows. "You are not to approach Watson's abductors under any circumstances. Observe and report, that is all. If you come across your acquaintances, the Gents, leave the area immediately," Holmes warned. Pilar crossed her arms. Why had Master ignored her? And why was he lounging about his flat when --- Page 89 --- his friend had been kidnapped? This case was growing more and more peculiar. Ozzie was having similar thoughts as he read the newspaper headline on Master's coffee table: "Assistant to Sherlock Holmes Missing! Scotland Yard Investigates'"Inspector Lestrade had departed from Holmes's flat when they'd arrived. Why were he and the Irregulars engaged in the search but not Master? Holmes turned to face them, his gaze piercing. "We will not help Watson's situation if you aretaken, too. Do You understand?" They all nodded and then stood to leave. Holmes lifted his pipe. "Irregulars, this case demands cooperation and loyalty. Watch out for one another and stay together." --- Page 90 --- Chapter 13 %Wiggins Summons the Gang% Alistair stood on top of the Grand Dame, staring down at the rest of the boys. "Where is that fat bloke?" "It is strange he ain't here," agreed Barnaby. "E1liot's just mad. He'll be back," Rohanassurecl them. Alfie, for his part, had just finished scrubbing his hands and face in a bucket of cold water and was busy trying to wet down an unruly cowlick. He studied it in frustration in the mirror. "Look at little Elf, tryin' to impress that bird, Patty," Alistair chided. --- Page 91 --- "Her name is Pilar," Alfie shot back. "And don't you be callin' her a bird. She's a princess." At this, the gang broke out in fits of laughter. Alfie wound up and was about to sock the nearest Irregular when Rohan stepped in. "Calm down, mate. Alistair is just teasin', that's a11." Alistair's face turned serious. "Anyways, I am tellin' you, Elliot runs off and the next thing that happens is those Gents appear. What's that tell you?" "That he 'as good timin'," said Wiggins as he, Ozzie, and Pilar entered the Castle. "Alistair, don't start trouble. Elliot's been in the gang as long as any of you, and he's trustworthy. He has an ill temper, that's a11." "Yeah, but from what I remember, Stitch lived in Lambeth Marsh, just like those Gents," Alistair shot back."That's true," said James, and a few of the other boys nodded."Enough," said Wiggins. "We all come from someplace. We can't be doubtin' each other now. --- Page 92 --- Anyways, Elliot ain't 'ere. So let's get to work. Master wants us to search for Dr. Watson at the Tower of London." "I'll wait for you outside," said Alistair angriiy as he hopped down from the carria¡¡e and stormed out the trapdoor.Wiggins shook his head. "Okay, boys, graba few lanterns. We may be headin' backunderground." "I'm readv for our next adventure, boss," said Alfie, eyeing Pilar and wondering if she noticed how clean he looked.Pilar smiled at him. Then she turned to Ozzie. "Are you up to it?" But Ozzie's thoughts were still with Master. When they had exited his flat, Ozzie looked up and saw the detective staring down at them. Was he watching me? Or was he just concentrating and not seeing any of us?Wiggins gave Ozzie a light shove. "We need you here with us, Oz. I know you're tired from your trip, but we got to find the Doctor." --- Page 93 --- Ozzie coughed and followed Wiggins back toward the trapdoor. Pilar and Wiggins exchanged a concerned look before they all headed out into the stinging afternoon air, where dark clouds hovered like a warning. --- Page 94 --- Chapter 14 %The Irregulars Reach the Tower of London% Tower of London loomed high above the River Thames. Yeoman 'Warders, dressed in red-trimmed blue uniforms and matching hatsguarded the entrance to the Middle Tower. A few of them held iong shafts with axelike biades at the top. Even though the fortress was guarded, people seemed to casually come and go through the gate."They call them Beefeaters," said Ozzie as the gang approached. "Possibly because they receive Large rations of meat." "Now there's a job for you, boss," said Alfie, grinning.A few of the others laughed. Even Wiggins couldn't help but chuckle as he --- Page 95 --- motioned to the gang to follow him toward the gate. A Yeoman Warder held out his arm. "Nothing in there for you urchins." "The Crown Jewels are in there, aren't they?" asked Wiggins, summoning an educated tone. Even Piiar was impressed by how well he carried it off. "I don't see what they have to do with the likes of you," the guard sneered. "We11, I'm a subject of this realm," said Wiggins with a slight bow, "which gives me, Mr. Beefeater, the right to see Her Majesty's baubles. "Another Yeoman Warder smirked, but the one Wiggins had addressed raised his shaft. "Out of 'ere, you little rats - all of you!" The Irregulars backed away from the gate. "Look," said Alfie, "children just like us arewalkin'in there." "They are rich and have parents, so they ain't just like us, you wally," said Alistair.Wiggins looked up at the imposing stone wallsthat circled the Tower complex and then at Ozzie. "You have any ideas, mate?" --- Page 96 --- "Dr. Watson couldn't have been led against his will past those Beefeaters. There must be another entrance. Let's circle the wa1ls. "As they did so, they discovered an empty moat that surrounded the Tower. The water had been drained and replaced with a wide strip of bright green grass. Following Ozzie's lead, the Irregulars made their way down and circled the Tower, gazing up at the battlements as they went. They passed two large wood gates, their hinges bolted into the walls of the fortress. An iron latch locked the gates at the center. A Yeoman Warder stood on the other side." "Wait," Wiggins whispered. "'Ave a look there." Above the gate, workmen were renovating a residence. The gang could see carts, ladders, tools, stacked timbers, and a horse cart with a long bed for hauling them. The driver of the cart was backing it around until the horses faced the gate. The Yeoman began to unlatch it. Wiggins gathered the Irregulars together. "Mates, we need the dodge and sprint. You remember how it's done? Pilar and Oz with me, the rest of --- Page 97 --- you sprint. Now pass over the lanterns' We'll need 'em." "What about me?" asked Alistair. Wiggins shook his head. "Just us three. Anymore is too many. Anyways, Al, I remember you as a fast runner. "Alistair turned and spit. "I want to go with you, too," Alfie complained. Wiggins heid up a hand to silence him as theYeoman Warder opened the huge latch. A few workmen helped him open the gates so the horse cart could pass through."Now!" said Wiggins.The sprinters howled and raced toward the gates, then made a sharp right turn into the Tower complex. The Yeoman and a few workmen gavechase. Meanwhile, Wiggins whistled a jaunty tune as he, Ozzie, and Pilar swung their lanterns, strode past the horse catt, turned left, and casually entered the complex. --- Page 98 --- Chapter 15 %Searching The Tower% Where should we start?" asked Ozzie" We have to find the Bloody Tower and the well," Pilar reminded him as she and Wiggins exchanged another worried glance. Pilar sympathized about Ozzie's father. She knew from experience how terrible it felt not to know your history or where vou came from. She gave his arm a gentle squeeze as she led them between two vast walls with turrets and towers rising on either side. They proceeded through a stone archway and entered another section of the fortress within the second wall. Here, there were newer Tudor buildings as well as others like the ancient main fortress. --- Page 99 --- When they came upon a series of decaying arches, Ozzie crouched down to rest. His breathingwas labored. He pulled out his tonic and took a swig. "Do you know anything else about this place?" he asked pilar."Not much. Except that the Tower of London was built on the ruins of an old Roman fortress.', She touched one of the arches.The word "ruins" clung to Ozzie’s brain."The brick and stone is the same as that arch in the catacombs," Wiggins noted. "What's goin' on 'ere?" That's ít. Roman ruins, again, Ozzie thought. Calico Finch, he thought. They kept on and passed a few well dressed people admiring various details in the architecture. Ozzie, Wiggins, and pilar paused to considersome of them, and that's when they saw him, not twenty feet away. His height, black suit, and bowler were unmistakable. "Blast it!" Wiggins growled. "How do those Gents know our every move?" --- Page 100 --- "It looks like the duke brought along two cohorts," Pilar whispered. "I don't think they've spotted us. "The three duckecd their heads, and she guided them quickly through the ruins until they came to a cistern. Wiggins peered down into the hole in the ground. "The well," said Ozzie. "How do you know that's what it is?" Wiggins asked. Pilar pointed to a sign that read well. "If Dr. Watson is here, this is where we,ll find 'im, right?" Wiggins looked around to see if anyone was watching. Then he stepped down into the crater. Ozzíe and Pilar followed. They crept across a large stone ledge and two smaller ledges. Then they lit the lanterns and stepped into the darkness.The cavern had been carved out of stone and clay. Ancient columns were imbedded in the walls."More ruins," said Pilar. --- Page 101 --- They moved through the cavern until they heard voices. Wiggins motioned to Ozzie and Pilar to turn down the lanterns. Silently, they edged their way to a large, dimly lit chamber where two men stood conversing, their frames cast in silhouette. The dank air pressed on Ozzie's lungs. He covered his mouth but could not keep a cough from escaping. The figures turned and raised their lanterns. "Who is there?" one asked, a quaver in hisvoice. Wiggins thought he recognized the voice from somewhere. "Show yourselves!" said the other figure in a commanding tone. When no one did, the two men turned and ran up a stairway. "What now?" asked Pilar. "Follow them!" said Wiggins. Ozzie stood motionless. --- Page 102 --- "Oz," Wiggins said in frustration. "Let's go! They are gettin' away. "Fut Ozzie did not take a step. Pilar put a hand on his shoulder. "What is it?" "The second man who spoke," said Ozzie. "That was Dr. Watson." --- Page 103 --- Chapter 16 %Ciphers are Discovered% Swiftly, they exited the Tower complex through the middie gate. None of the Irregulars were in sight, nor were the Gents or Watson. Pilar pressed on her left eye to stop it from twitching. "what is this all about? If that was Dr. Watson, why did he run? And he sounded perfectiy well. He wasn't a prisoner.Wiggins nodded. "He was talkin to that gentleman like he was a mate. And the other voice - I 'eard it before." "Me, too," said Pilar. Ozzie's mind raced. He had ideas, but he didn't like the conclusions he was drawing. None of it --- Page 104 --- makes sense," he said wearily. "Maybe I was wrong, maybe that wasn't Watson." "It ain't like you to be wrong about somethin' iike that, Oz," said wiggins. "This whole search puzzles me," Pilar admitted. Ozzie rubbed his eyes. "Master is acting out of character. I don't think he's sharing all the facts with us." "He doesn't always share the facts," said Wiggins. "But if he's lying to us, we him," said Pilar."Really?" said W"I don't think Master would like that."Ozzíe recalled his poor attempt to confront him earlier and felt his stomach roil."If Sherlock Holmes ain't tellin' us the wholestory, he's got a reason - and that's good enoughfor me." "Yes, but why is he making things up?" Pilar pressed. "If we kneus the reason perhaps we could do more." --- Page 105 --- She and Wiggins faced off in cold silence.Meanwhile, Ozzie's thoughts tumbled back and forth from the conversation he still wanted to have with Master to the case."The voice," said Pilar suddenly. "I know the voice of the other man, it was -" "- the assistant to the Principal Librarian from the British Museum!" Wiggins finished. "Mr. Tuttle. "Ozzie nodded as the pieces put themselves together in his mind. "This is all about Calico Finch's death," he thought aloud. "Holmes invented Watson's abduction, as a distraction." "For whom?" Pilar asked.Ozzie stood, feeling more energized than he had all day. "There's only one way to find out."Holmes was not in his flat when they arrived. Frustrated, Ozzie told Billy to summon them right away when he returned. He, Wiggins, and pilar headed back to the Castle, each harboring private thoughts. Then, just as they turned off of Baker --- Page 106 --- Street and waLked a short way, Wiggins noticed chalk marks on the wall of a building. "There they are again." He pointed them out to Ozzie. Pilar pulled out her writing tablet and scribbled them down. Then she compared them to the iast series of symbols she'd copied. "Some are the same, but there are new ones, and they are in a different order."Ozzie's gaze traveled from the tablet to the wall. "These are definitely messages. They're ciphers." "What's a cipher?" Wiggins asked. "The symbols stand for letters and make up words. If we can figure out which symbol is which letter, we might be able to see what it means." "There's another," Ozzie said, crossing the street. --- Page 107 --- Chapter 17 %Thin Gents Strike Again% Splintered pieces of wood littered the floor of the alley. The planks to the trapdoor were ripped apart. Inside the carriage factory, clothes, blankets, cooking sticks, stools, and crates lay smoldering in thg fire pit. plates and glasses were shattered on the floor. Tornatoes splattered the walls. The lrregulars' precious books and magazines were now little more than shreds. Worst of all, the grand carriage that had been used as a stage, sleeping compartment, lounger, and source of more than a few imaginary adventures had been knocked off its blocks onto its side. The doors had been torn clear off, the --- Page 110 --- stuffing from the seat cushions projected in elongated puffs through the torn fabric. In tar, spread across the far wall with an old broom, was written GENTS. Wiggins gazed about the only home he had ever known now in ruins. All of their possessions were broken or missing. What 1ittle comfort he had managed to create was gone.Rohan walked calmiy through the debris, picking up pieces of things to see if there was anything worth saving and then throwing most of them into the fire pit."Bloody Gents," Alistair said. "They'll pay." Pilar stood numb, at a loss for what to do. Alfie walked over to her, and she offered him her hand, which he laid his cheek upon.Wiggins felt a knot clog his throat and choked back tears. Then, like a wounded animal, he let out a mournful howl. Ozzie watched the scene in a slight daze, his mind clicking, trying to piece together the events of the day. He was certain now that they were all --- Page 111 --- related the ciphers, the Gents, Calico Finch he just did not know how.You've survived worse than this, Wiggins told himself, remembering all those shivering nights passed in dark alleys with no cloak and no company. He swiped at his tears. "Okay, mates." His voice cracked and he swallowed and tried again. "It's a bloody mess, and we'll be better. off if we just clean out the place and start over. Barnaby, you're a good hand with the tools, you and Pete go find some nails and a hammer and work on the trapdoor. The last thing we need is others comin' in 'ere. Rohan, build up the fire and burn what you can. The rest of you, find a way to make yourselves useful." "What about the Grand Dame?" asked Alfie. Wiggins looked at the damaged coach and shook his head. "Leave her be for now When this case is over, we'll fix her if we can. "Absently, Ozzie helped clearl, his mind still reeling. After a while, he asked Pilar for the writing tablet and a pencil and climbed up to the catwalk. He studied the ciphers and tried to remember the --- Page 112 --- rules. Master would know exactly where to begin. He was a skilled cryptologist who had broken countless codes. Ozzie remembered watching him decipher a few. Examining the symbols now, he knew they were the key to everything. --- Page 113 --- Chapter 18 %A Spy Is Suspected% There is a spy among us," Ozzie told Wiggins. The two were out for some air after a few hours of cleaning. "What are you talkin' about, Oz?" "Just what I said. One of the Irregulars is a spy." At first, Ozzie had been baffled by the ciphers,but then he found the right vowel-svmbol combination and the code seemed to unlock itself. When he read the messages in their entirety, his heart raced. He knew he had to keep his com- posure in front of the others and approached Wiggins casually. --- Page 114 --- "Blast it!" said Wiggins. "I don't want to hear it, mate. Today has been too much. The Castle's destroyed, Master is lyin' to us about Dr. Watson's abduction, Alistair is causin' more trouble than I need, I don't eVen know where Elliot is, Pilar is pesterin' me to join the gang and the others ain't gonna like that. And to be honest, you been actin' mighty strange yourself since you returned. And now you're tellin' me that one of us is a spy!" Wiggins grabbed his hair, spun around, and dropped down to the walkway.Ozzie sat down next to him and awkwardly patted his shoulder.Wiggins rubbed his eyes. "You really think there's a spy?" "Those chalk symbols are messages. Three of them were written to the Gents, letting them know about our investigation, where we were going today, and the location of the carriage factory. Look." Ozzie showed. him the notebook: --- Page 115 --- Holmes knows he did it and about the journal. The catacombs atWest Norwood Cemetery. The Tower of London. Their place is down the street and through the alley.Ozzie continued, "The fourth one was written by a Gent to the spy." Return immediately. --- Page 116 --- Wiggins nodded, even though he couldn't make out the words. "Who do you think it is?" "To create and decode these ciphers, one needs to know how to read and write. Who in the gang has that ability, Wiggins?" Meanwhile, back at the Castle, Pilar had been wielding a broom for over an hour. The area around the fire pit was finally clean. Most of the debris had been picked up, crated, or carried out to the alley."It will be cold sleepin'without a blanket again,"said Pete."I'm gonna miss my old pillow," said Simpson.Aifie sighed. "I'm gonna miss the Grand Dame. I can't play highwayman no more." "Listen to you," said Alistair. "You didn't haveany of this when you was on the streets' You've all gone soft. I've heard enough of this sissy talk'" He crossed the carriage factory and stormed through the newly repaired trapdoor. Pilar felt a tingling sensation in her hands as she watched him leave, and she knew enough to --- Page 117 --- trust it. Handing the broom to Alfie, she said, "Finish up. I'll be back." "Other than you and Pilar, Oz, none of us can read." "Wiggins, someone can. The first three messages were written by someone in the gang."Wiggins thought. "'Well, Rohan is tryin'to teach himself."Ozzie considered this. "Unless he's made significant progress since I left, it couldn't be him." "How do you know it's one of us? It could be anyone." "Wiggins, Master only gave directions to us." "What about Billy? He hears everything that goes on in Master's flat." "You said Billy wasn't in the flat when Master instructed you to go to the cemetery." "Elliot?" Wiggins looked confused and unsure. "I don't think so. He wasn't around when we received the assignment to go to the Tower of London, and besides, I'm certain he can't read." --- Page 118 --- Wiggins smacked himself on the side of the head as he realized. who Ozzie had been thinking of all along. "I can't believe lt, Oz. He's my oldest mate' He wouldn't..."Ozzie stood up. "He must have learned' a lot inthe workhouse." --- Page 119 --- Chapter 19 %Captured Again!% The clop of horse hooves smacking the cobblestones, filled the air. Pilar watched Alistair jump on the back of a carriage heading toward the Thames. Like a doe, she sprung onto the back of another going in the same direction. Ozzte and Wiggins came around the corner just in time to glimpse them. With no other carriages immediately nearby, the boys followed on foot. Carts, hansoms, hackneys, and a few broughams vied for passage on the street. When Pilar's carriage caught up to Alistair's, she stole a furtiveglance at him before curling back und'er her cloak to hide. --- Page 120 --- Meanwhile, street traffic increased, giving Ozzie and Wiggins an opportunity to gain ground. But the exertion left them panting and light-headed. They were relieved to at last board a carriage.Seeing Pilar dismount at the foot of Lambeth Bridge, the boys did the same." Alistair jumped off a few streets back, and now he's crossing the bridge over the Thames." Pilar pointed him out to Ozzie and Wiggins. They watched him for a moment - allowing a distance to clear between them - and then followed. "La mofeta!" Pilar stormed. "I knew he was a skunk the first time I saw him." "I still ain't sure. . ." Wiggins kept his gaze on the ground. "If you don't believe he's guilty, why are you here?" Pilar snapped. "We shall soon see the truth of the matter," Ozzie said to d.efuse the tension as the three crossed the bridge and tracked Alistair along the riverbank. --- Page 121 --- "He is walking with purpose and a familiarity of the area," pilar noted.Ozzie had been thinking the same thing.But Wiggins kept quiet. He knew better than to engage with pilar when she was so heated. Andbesides, part of him worrieA that she was right.Alistair turned onto a mucky path, and so did they, past shacks, tenements, and factories, where the air was heavy with the rotten-egg smell of sulfur. Covering their mouths, they passed through a viaduct onto a street with a brighily painted building and a red-and-white sign announcing, JENNIE'S GIN SHOP. Alistair went inside. Wiggins approached the window and peered in. He stayed there longer than was safe, the truth registering like an arrow in his gut. His oldest friend had betrayed him. At last, Ozzie pried him away from the window. "You were right,,' Wiggins said foggily. "Alistair is in there with the duke and his mates." Before Ozzie or Pilar had a chance to respond, --- Page 122 --- the door swung open. The three dashed around the side of the building as Alistair, the duke, and another Gent exited.When they passed, Ozzie placed a hand on Wiggins's shoulder. "Are you a1l right?" He nodded. "Then let's go," Ozzie said. "We have a case tosolve. "They followed Alistair and the Gents down amuddy path and past a row of shacks before turning onto a wide dirt road. A tall brick wall lined one side, and railway tracks the other. Smokestacks puffed sooty clouds into the early evening sky, darkening it even more. At the water's edge, the Gents boarded. a sma1l barge, tied to an old wooden dock. With no windows or light emanating from within, it resembled a large black coffin, floating grimly on the water. Wiggins waved Ozzie and Pilar behind some old crates stacked near the dock. They crouched, waited, and watched. Sounds in the brush popped around thein, but no one passed. --- Page 123 --- Wiggins thought about Alistair. How could his oldest mate betray him? What did the duke have to offer that Wiggins didn't? "What should we do?" asked pilar. "Take a closer look," said Ozzie. Absently, Wiggins nodded his agreement.Ozzie motioned for the others to wait as hestarted slowly down the dock. Just as he reachedthe barge, a Gent appeared on deck and grabbed him."Get inside, runt!" The Gent pointed at the barge. Reluctantly, Ozzie climbed down. He hoped that Wiggins and Pilar would get help swiftly. A large square hatch opened on the deck. Lantern light radiated from inside. Ozzie stepped down through the hatch into the barge. As he did, he watched grimty as Wiggins and pilar were dragged down the dock by two other Gents. --- Page 124 --- Chapter 20 %A Floating Coffin% thick rope bound Ozzie, Wiggins' and Pilar together around. their waists, arms pinned to their sides. Searching for an exit, Ozzie's gaze darted about. A few oil lamps illuminated the long, rectangular space. A dozen hammocks hung at one end. In the center, a large table sat littered with dirty papersand empty bottles. Four Gents hovered over them. The duke restedone hand on Alistair's shoulder and gestured with the other. "Yous thought yous was clever escapin' from that crypt. But I knew I'd be seein' yousagain. "Wiggins stared at Alistair. --- Page 125 --- The duke bent down and turned Wiggins's face to his. "Last time I was nice 'cause we needed somethin'. Yous got nothin' we need now. Yous know what that means, don't Yous?" "No, I don't, you ape, but I guess you're goin' to tell me." Wiggins strained in his ropes. The duke grabbed Wiggins by the hair andyanked his head to the side. "Don't be cheekg with me. That's it, boys and girls' yous are done' Just like the dirty little factory yous all live in." Wiggins turned to look at his old friend' "Are we done, Al?" Alistair held his gaze. "These are my mates now, Wiggins. The duke helped me get out of the workhouse. You did nothin' for me. You didn't even try. They are a whole different class from you and the Irregulars. And now I am, too." "The only reason he got you out' mate' was so you could spy on us. That's your new friend' someone who is usin' Yoü," Wiggins said sadly. "Mofeta. Me diste mala esprina desde el primer momento en que te vi," Pilar growled. "Skunk. I knew you looked shady the first time I saw you." --- Page 126 --- Alistair lunged at her, but the duke held him back."The girl has enough problems now because she keeps poor company. A shame really." The duke stared unctuously at pilar. Then he snapped his fingers."Gents! We must meet the others. Leave nothin' behind."The three boys came to attention, adjusted their hats, and took their rast swailows from the botties they were hotding. "Do you think the professor is going to do something special for you?" said Ozzie. "He will make you dig at the site like poor laborers, searching for his treasure. He'll pay you little, and those fine suits will be ruined from dust. "The duke grabbed Ozzie by the collar, but then took control of himself. "Shirty, are we? Yous think yous know somethin', runt? Well, maybe. But it won't help none 'cause you'll never be able to share it with Sherlock Holmes, or no one else." He smirked as he tossed an oil lamp on the floor not twenty feet away from Ozzie. --- Page 127 --- The glass shattered and flames spilled out across the floor, spreading swiftly and lapping up the walls "Enjoy the evenin'." The duke pulled himself up through the hatch. One by one, the three other Gents and Alistair followed. Alistair took one last look at Wiggins as smoke filled the barge. "Sorry, mate. "As soon as they were gone, Ozzie ordered, "We need to all push back against one another and try to stand!" "When he gave the command, they braced their legs, which were not tied, and rose together. Heat and smoke crept closer. Ozzie and Pilar started coughing. "What now?" she managed. Ozzie looked at the hatch. "We can't climb out tied together. We have to cut these ropes." "How?" Wiggins started coughing, too. Flames licked the floor just a few feet away.As a unit, they stumbled back, gasping for breath, their eyes burning from the smoke."Find something we can rub up against." But even as Ozzie said it, he could see there was nothing that would help. --- Page 128 --- "I can't breathe. I have to sit down." Pilar started to cry. The three inched as far away from the flames as they could and then sunk to the floor. Was it all going to end here, Pilar wondered, in this floating coffin? Just then, footsteps sounded on the deck above them. A shadowy figure slid down the hatch. Through squinted, watery eyes, Wiggins saw the figure pull out a knife. was the duke going to mercifully finish them off before the flames got them? Or had Alistair changed his mind and come to rescue them? "Out now!" a familiar voice shouted, pushing each of them up the hatch and onto the dock just as the flames swallowed the barge. --- Page 129 --- Chapter 21 %The Past is Corrected% Dark smudges of dirt and oil covered Elliot's face. His red hair glowed in the moonlight. "Fire's a wicked thing," he said as the four collapsed on the dock and watched the barge burn. "I know it better than most. It took my family, and I curse it every day." Still wheezing, Ozzie looked incredulously at Elliot. Pilar wiped hot tears from her cheeks. "Thank you for saving us. We would have died down there." Elliot nodded solemnly. Wiggins rubbed his stinging eyes. "Where did you come from?" --- Page 130 --- "I been followin' them Gents since the cemetery. I saw 'em go into that chapel after you. I heard 'em talkin', and they knew you was there. Like someone told 'em." Elliot paused and looked at Wiggins. "I knew right off who was 'elpin' 'em. I knew from the past, if you get me."Wiggins felt a wave of understanding wash over him, and was ashamed of how he had been treating Elliot. He'd made a mistake long ago about who was his true friend. Leading them down the dock, away from the water, Elliot continued, "When they came up out of the catacombs, I wanted to go for you, but decided to follow 'em instead. I am glad I did, 'cause now I know where the temple is." "The temple?" asked Pilar. "The temple of the goddess. The temple that Professor Moriarty is diggin' up." "You saw Moriarty!?" they all said at once."I think it was 'im. They kept callin' 'im Professor, anyway." "Have you seen the temple?" asked. Ozzie. --- Page 131 --- "No," said Elliot, "I just heard 'em talkin' 'bout it and seen 'em diggin'." "Where is the dig?" asked Pilar."On the other side of the river, near an old tube station. Just down the stairs and through the tunnel - like it's been waitin'for us" "Can you take us there?" asked Wiggins. Elliot nodded and led them to a street where a few tired hackney cabs waited. Thev all pooled their money and negotiated a ride acrossthe river. "Mark Lane Station," Elliot told the driver. "How did you know that Alistair worked with the Gents?" Pilar asked as the hackney lurched forward, pulling them through the dark streets of Lambeth. "Someone must've told those Gents you were down in the catacombs. I knew it wasn't one of the boys. 'We all been together too long. But Alistair just showed up and got right into the case. It didn't seem natural. "Ozzie observed Elliot in a new light. The boy had some smarts about him. --- Page 132 --- "That and there was that time, Wiggins, you remember, over a year ago. We hadn't eaten in days and were so hungry our bellies hurt. you, Alistair, and me went marketin'. We had that plan about pinchin' some food." "I do remember," said Wiggins. "We were desperate." "That's right, and we went to the marketplace and the plan was you would take a piece of cheese off a stand and when the monger went to chase you and left the stand unguarded, Alistair and me would take whatever we could get. "Wiggins nodded. And later, back at the Castle, Alistair told allof you that I must've eaten most of the food on the way back and that's why I didn't have much with me." Elliot's voice sounded a bit wobbty in the dark of the carriage. "And Alistair said that I shouldn't get nothin' to eat 'cause I already had me fill, and you all listened to 'im, even when I tried to telt the truth of what happened."Wiggins remembered it well. Eltiot had denied eating the cheese to the point at which tears welled --- Page 133 --- up in his eyes. But he smelled like cheese, and he looked guilty, and Alistair was different then, reliable. Elliot wasn't. "I didn't eat nothin, it was 'im. I saw how much he took off that cart and when we got back to the Castle, I saw how litile he had. I didn't grab as much as 'im 'cause he grabbed first, and by the time I was loadin' up, another monger came runnin' after us. You all blamed me, and I never got one bite of nothin' that night. All ,cause Alistair lied and cheated. If Id had a place to go, I would've left the gang that night. I stiil might have gone, but it wasn't much after that Alistair got caught stealin' and went to the workhouse. I thought that was that. "They all sat in silence. Pilar wanted to take Elliot's hand or offer him some support, but she realized they didn't have that closeness so she just nodded sympathetically. Ozzie thought he understood Eliiot now. The months of finding him so disagreeabie melted away. --- Page 134 --- Wiggins cleared' his throat. "I am sorry' Stitch, I made a big mistake. I guess we all did'" "Well, at least you believe me now"' said Elliot. "All right, enough of the past," he said as he gazedout the window. "Right," said Wiggins, thinking again of Alistairand wishing he could let it go as easily' --- Page 135 --- Chapter 22 %Underground% As the hackney pulled up to the Mark Lane Station, the gang spied one of the Gents go the underground stairs. They waited a few minutes and then followed. But they had nocoins left to pay for entry. "Earlier, I ran by when no one was lookin'. With four of us, that won't be easy." Elliot observed the station attendant. "I have an idea," said' Ozzie, looking at Pilar. "But it means you'll have to catch up with us. "At the ticket booth, Pilar rocked on her feet. Her eyes traveled up into her head" She brought the --- Page 136 --- back of her hand to her forehead, moaned, and then dropped to the ground. Everyone in the station, including the attendant, stopped and stared. An elderly woman and a few men bent down to help her. One of the men fanned her with a newspaper. "She's fainted clear away," the elderly woman said, touching Pilar's cheeks. Meanwhile, the boys siipped swiftly and inconspicuously past the ticket booth and down the stairs to the platform. "I believe I'm all right," Pilar said, opening her eyes. "What time is it? I mustn't be late to Granny's. "The elderly woman helped her to her feet, then kindly paid for her ticket and accompanied her down the stairs. "Take your time, dearie," she said. Pilar nodded as she stole a glance at the boys, heading for the far end of the platform. Like rats, they scurried down onto the tracks and disappeared. into the darkness of the tunnel. Pilar worried less about their safety and more that they might go on without her. The platform --- Page 137 --- vibrated from the rumble of an approaching train. When it stopped in front of her, the elderly Woman squeezed Pilar's hand. "Come, dearie." "Thank you," Pilar said, and then, much to the woman's surprise, turned and ran down the platform, where she waited for the train to pull arway. As soon as it did, Pilar jumped down onto the track. The boys were waiting for her in a side alcove."That was a fine bit of actin'," said Elliot. "You would've made Mr. Holmes proud. "Pilar grinned a self-satisfied grin in Wiggins's direction. "I'm glad you and Ozzie are back. We need your smarts. "Ozzíe listened in the dark for any movement or sound. Sensing nothing, he said, "Let's go." Eiliot led the way as they picked through the darkness. A short time later, they arrived at an abandoned station platform. In tile on the wall, it said TOWER HILL. Elliot stopped. "We're almost there. Just past this station is a passage that leads to where they are diggin'." --- Page 138 --- "One of us should go for Master," said Wiggins, looking at Pilar. "If this is the spot, he needs to know right away". Ozzie agreed it was a good plan. Pilar crossed her arms. "I am not leaving." And I need to show you the way," "Elliot said. Wiggins and Ozzie looked at each other. "All right, then," Wiggins agreed. "Let's go a little farther." --- Page 139 --- Chapter 23 %The Dig% verhead air shafts lit the way through a large tunnel. The air was thick and dusty and pressed uncomfortably on Ozzie's chest." "We have been spending too much time under actually a towering mound of freshly dug dirt and stone, climbing some thirty feet high. They could have circled around it, but Elliot led them straight up. He dropped onto all fours ancl crawled to manage the steep incline. The others followed. The climb was difficult, for the dirt would sometimes give way, causing them to slide backward. At the top, they iay on their stomachs and peered down. Below, large lanterns illuminated a vast excavation site. A beastly-looking machine on rotating tracks blew smoke and hissed. A train engine made up its body, a giant shovel, its head and neck. Scooping dirt and stone, it unearthed a series of two story stone archways. Ozzie covered his ears and said. "ft's a steam shovel. "Approximately twentyive men, inciuding at least a dozen Gents, wielded shovels, picks, and brooms to clear away dirt from inside the archways. Their speed and proficiency reminded Wiggins of the colony of carpenter ants that invaded the carriage factory everv spring. --- Page 141 --- Scaffolding had been erected so that work occurred on both the upper and lower levels of the archways. The duke chipped away at one with a large miner's pick. The Gent who'd trapped Ozzie on the barge swept away the debris. But none of the archways had yet been cleared of enough sediment to allow passage.Meanwhile, Alistair walked from worker to worker, carrying a pail of water and a ladle with which to quench the thirsty. Wiggins's chest burned at the sight of him.Pilar recognized the design of the stone archways immediately. It was identical to the ones they'd seen at the Tower of London and in the catacombs of Norwood Cemetery. Ozzie had made the same connection as he watched the excavation in awe. The sheer number of archways and their prodigious height transported him to ancient Rome, the setting of so many stories his grandfather had once read to him. Those lazy Sunday afternoons with Grandfather, and all that had happened in the intervening years, felt --- Page 142 --- like a lifetime ago, or perhaps like someone else's lifetime.Ozzie forced himself to shake off the memory and concentrate on the workers. His gaze traveled from one to the next, finaliy landing on him. Even from far away, his tall, thin frame and domed forehead were unmistakable. Though Ozzie had met him faceoace before, suddenly, looking down on England's greatest criminal mind made his heart race. In his black cape and top hat, Professor Moriarty lorded over the dig like Cerberus over the gate to Hades. Another man, wearing spectacles, a tweed vest, and a dusty straw hat stood beside him. Ozzie motioned to the others to inch back down the dirt mound, out of sight. "Is the man in the top hat who I think he is?" asked Pilar. Ozzie nodded. Wiggins grabbed his hair. "The Napoleon of Crime is down there, and we're alone with him and all those men?!" --- Page 143 --- Elliot put a hand on his shoulder. "Easy, mate. "Wiggins iooked around and, in a quieter voice, said, "Okay, no more messin' around. 'We know where Moriarty is and what he is doin' and where the darn temple is most likely. 'We need to go tell Master. Our job is done. "Pilar peeked over the top of the mound. "We can't leave yet. We need to stop him." "Stop Moriarty?" Wiggins exclaimed. "Master is always tellin' us to observe and report back and not to take risks. We ain't always listened to 'im, but I think it's time we start. "The steam shovel grew louder and they strained to hear one another over the din. Pilar looked to Ozzie. "But what if Moriarty gets away?" "Wiggins is right. Someone must report to Master. One or two of us can stay. If Moriarty leaves, we'll follow him. The temple site is not going anywhere so Before Ozzie could finish his thought, the steam shovel dumped a full load onto the mound. Stone and dirt rained down upon them. --- Page 144 --- Wiggins and Pilar scrambled to their feet and ran through the pelting rukrble. Behind them, Elliot rolled like a 1og down the back side of the mound. Ozzie stood to follow, but slipped and tumbled down the front side. He came to rest at the feet of two enormous men wielding shovels. One man dropped his shovel and hoisted Ozzie to his feet. The other dragged him away. --- Page 145 --- Chapter 24 %The Irregulars Meet Moriarty% Tnu steam shovel had stopped digging and its ff driver climbed out. Though less clamorous, the machine still puffed and hissed like some ancient beast. A group of workers, including the duke and Alistair, surrounded Ozzie.One of the men laughed and asked the steam shovel operator, "What kinda treasure you dig up, Mick?" Moriarty glared at Ozzie as he directed his men,"Go see if there are others." This one's one of Holmes's boys," said the duke. "I don't know how he made it 'ere. We left 'im in Lambeth. He should be burnt up and sunk to the bottom of the river by now." --- Page 146 --- "He's here because he followed You," Moriarty said disgustedly. "Clearly, he is more capable than you and your boys. "The duke's broad shoulders slumped. A few of the Gents shot looks of concern at one another. Moriarty turned to Ozzie. "Tell me, boy, do you have friends with you?" The pressure inside Ozzie's chest was unbearable. He reached inside his coat for his tonic, but as soon as he did, Moriarty swatted it out of his hand. The bottle shattered on the ground, the precious cod liver oil soaking into the dirt. Ozzie stared at it and felt his lungs seize up even more. "Answer me, boy!" "They were here . . ." Ozzie managed, "but I sent them for Mr. Holmes." "I see," said Moriarty, rubbing his immense forehead. Then he ordered his men back to work. The man in the straw hat remained beside him' Moriarty pointed to the duke. "You stay with us and our little friend here. "Carter," Moriarty said to the man in the straw hat, "we need to focus our energies on a single --- Page 147 --- archway. The second story wil have less sediment. Organize the men. If we don't gain access quickly,we will have to use less subtle means." He pointed to the steam shovel. "What about Sherlock Holmes?" asked Carter. "If Holmes knew our whereabouts, he would be here already. He's immersed, in the search for his friend, Dr. Watson, a very opportune mishap for us. We will be done here long before Holmes solves that case and turns to this one. "What about the lad's friends? They could be warning him as we speak." Moriartv turned to Ozzie. "you were merely bluffing when you said you sent your mates for Holmes, were you not?" Ozzie said nothing. The duke grabbed his arm and twisted until Ozzie's whole body shuddered with pain. He bit hislip to keep from crying out."Speak, runt!" the duke demanded. Just then, the men Moriarty had sent searching returned with pilar, Wiggins, and Elliot. "We found 'em headin, for the station," said one. --- Page 148 --- The duke shoved Ozzie to the ground. Moriarty fixed the duke with a hard stare. "We have no time fnr these distractions. I do not enjoy being followed by Holmes's urchins. Serve me better, Dickie. Now tie them up. we will do away with them later. "Before he turned to go, Moriarty studied Ozzie one more time. "You look familiar, boy. I know I have seen you previously. "Ozzie remained silent. Moriarty's reptilian eyes bore into him. "Infuriating. Just like your master." Moriarty pacecl away. The duke had fire in his eyes as he lifted Ozzie off the ground like a rag doll and thrust him forward. Other men pushed Wiggins, Pilar, and Elliot along. "We are all going to have a talk," the duke growled. "Okay, Dickie," Wiggins mocked, before he received a swift kick to his leg. --- Page 149 --- Chapter 25 %Moriarty Summons Ozzie% Ozzie, Wiggins, Pilar, and Elliot were deposited on the ground near a toolbox, like discarded pieces of wood. "Well, at least we're not all tied up to each other this time," Wiggins said, trying to lighten the mood. "Yes, this is much more comfortable," said pilar, groaning. Elliot twisted in the ropes bound around his wrists. "Bloody Gents."Aiistair passed them, sheepishly carting his bucket of water. "Hey, Al," Wiggins called. "Have you a drink for your old mate? Sure could 'ave used it on that burnin' barge." --- Page 150 --- Alistair kept walking, his head down. Ozzie watched the men on the scaffolding working tirelessly on two arches side by side. Removing the sediment from the archway was slow and tedious work. The sediment, a mixture of compacted dirt, stone, and clay looked hard as rock.'Any ideas, Oz?" Wiggins said. Ozzie considered the options and gazed over his shoulder into the deep toolbox. The tools inside it were out of reach, but the box itself was near enough. It had a sharp metal edge. Ozzie rubbed the rope against it. The other three watched. When one of the workmen looked over or passed, he would stop."What do you think they're goin' to do with us?" asked Pilar.'As soon as they find the temple, they'll finish us," said Elliot. Wiggins nodded. "Moriarty taiks like a gentleman, but he ain't. "Grimly, the gang watched Moriarty and Carter standing some twenty feet away, observing the work. Occasionally, Moriarty gave Carter --- Page 151 --- directions to pass on to the men. At one point, Moriarty pulled a small notebook from his pocketand paged through it. "That must be Calico Finch's," said Pilar. When two men yelled from the scaffolding, Carter ran over to investigate. "The scrivener's apprertice." Ozzie had been watching the action so intently that he was startled to see Moriarty's tall frame looming over him. His penetrating eyes held Ozzie like a magnet. He could not look away' But behind the snake like ferocity, Ozzie sensed something else familiarity, affection? Ozzie was trying to determine when Moriarty spoke again." You were apprenticed to Crumbly. His most elite forger. I remember you now. Does Sherlock Holmes know that you haven't always worked onthe right side of the law?" Moriarty remembered him? He thought him elite"? Ozzie felt his cheeks burn' from pride orfear he could not tell. Before he could respond, Carter appeared at Moriarty's side in an excited state. --- Page 152 --- "Professor, they forged a hole all the way through. In a few more hours, it should be large enough for us to enter!" Moriarty addressed the man calmly, "How much time do you think we have, Carter? We are not doing an excavation for one of your esteemed benefactors. Scotland Yard could appear at any time. We need to send someone into that hole to see what is on the other side. If the Temple of Diana is there and not too close to those arches, we can use the steam shovel to break our waythrough." "But Professor, those arches are architectural treasures "They may be treasures," said Moriarty, "but they're of no value to me if they do not fit in my pocket. Finch's notes tell us that the temple may be filled with golden offerings' Treasure that can be carried away. Not even I can appropriate a temple or your valuable arches. "Carter's enthusiasm dissipated. "Professor, no one can fit through that hole. We need more time to enlarge it." --- Page 153 --- Moriarty's gaze returned to Ozzie' "There is one among us who can fit."Ozzie perched" on the scaffold with a rope tied tightly about his waist. The duke held the other end like a leash. Moriarty and Carter stoodbeside them."You understand your orders?" Moriartyaskcd.Ozzie nodded. "There may not be much air in the chamber onthe other side, so proceed with care," said Carter. Moriarty gave Ozzie a thoughtful look. "You were nearlv of use to me once but my plans then were thwarted. Do not disappoint me this time, boy. We are not often given second chances." Ozzie nodded again as the duke thrust a lantern into his hand. Ozzie looked across to his friends who were still tied near the toollbox. "If you try to further disrupt our plans," Moriarty warned, "your friends will bear the burden of your decision." Then he placed a hand on --- Page 154 --- Ozzie's shoulder and in a softer tone said, "I know vou can do it, my boy. "Ozzie held the lantern in front of him and peered into the hole. A tube approximately five or six feet long and fourteen inches wide had been burrowed through the sediment. He glanced from Moriarty to his friends. Then, without a word, he squeezed himself into the tunnel. --- Page 155 --- Chapter 26 %Ozzie Meets Dina% The narrow space was dark and suffocating and felt queasy as he snaked through, propelling himself forward with his right hand and holding the lantern in front of him with his left. The rough surface scraped his arms, stomach, and legs. There was a dull pressure inside his head, and. his thoughts would not align properly as though his brain were filled with sand. Would he be able to find the treasure and keep his friends from harm? Moriarty said that he would do away with him and the others once he got his gold. But seeing him tip close, Ozzie couldn't tell if he meant it. Where was Master? And why had he lied to the Irregulars? Recaliing his conversation --- Page 156 --- I with him earlier that day, Ozzie felt sick. Would he even want such a cold, detached man for a father? His breathing grew labored as though something clutched him around the throat. He was about to reach for his tonic, but remembered it was gone. The thought made his throat constrict more. He tried to swallow and couldn't. His head pounded, his vision blurred, and his hands sweated. As a faint began to overtake him, he willed himself against it. Somehow, he reached the other side. Hanging his head out into open space, Ozzie gulped air. He yanked the rope, signaling the duke to pull it taut and let it out slowly with each subsequent tug. Breathing more steadily, Ozzie slid out of the opening and was lowered. He continued to take deep breaths, testing that there was sufficient air. Sooner than expected, he hit the ground with a thud. He found himself in a small courtyard, enclosed by stone archways. Columns lay on the ground like fallen trees. A large stone pedestal stood before him. It was chiseled with writing in a language he --- Page 157 --- could not read. At his feet was the disembodied head of a marble horse. Ozzie kicked the thick dust and discovered a mosaiciled floor in browns and greens. He kicked more and, suddenly, a woman's face appeared. Her almondhaped eyes stared up at him, transporting him back centuries. Moriarty and his men stood anxiously on the scaffolding, waiting for Ozzie's return. Wiggins had been rubbing the rope against the toolbox since Ozzie left. Finalty, it had begun to fray. Pilar cleared her throat. when Wiggins looked up, one of the workmen was standing over them. "You're in my wav. I need to reach those tools." The man was stocky and bearded with a significant paunch that strained the buttons of his dusty striped work shirt. He bent down to reach into the toolbox, but then turned, pulled a knife from his belt, and sliced the ropes that bound Wiggins's wrists and ankles. --- Page 158 --- "Keep your hands behind you and don't move your legs or they might notice you are free. I'll drop the knife behind you so you can release the others at the right time." "Master? " Wiggins whispered. "There is no time for conversation," Holmes said, rummaging through the toolbox. "I don't know how you discovered this place on your own, or how many times I have warned you against such perilous acts." Holmes picked up a large hammer and pretended to study it. "Pilar, if Moriarty were facing us, would you be able to read his lips?" Pilar was still registering that the stout man before her was Holmes. "Yes, I think so." "Good," Holmes said, standing. "If he summons the steam shovel, that is your signal to flee. Return the way you came." But, Master Holmes turned and abruptly strode away before Wiggins could finish his question. --- Page 159 --- Ozzie's lantern pierced the darkness as he continued walking. He came upon the temple five stone steps led to a circle of eight columns, capped by a dome. The structure appeared intact, frozen in time, as if it had waited there for over a millennium for Ozzie to discover it. He tugged the rope for slack and entered. The floor was made of smooth marble, the ceiling carved with animals frozen in mid-leap. Ozzie's gaze traveled al1 around and finally settled on her. She stood nearþ ten feet tall and looked down upon him almost regally from her pedestal. She wore the clothes of a huntress and carried a bow and a quiver of arrows. Her eyes, both strong and gentle, utteriy transfixed him. He unclerstood immediately why Calico Finch had been obsessed with her. She was magnificent. "Diana," he breathed. He reached up and touched her foot. It felt gritty. When he removed his hand, he saw that his fingerprints had left golden impressions in the dust. Brushing away more dust, he discovered that she was made of solid gold. --- Page 160 --- He stood in silent awe for a moment longer before finishing his circle. At the back of the temple, he found a marble altar framed by two large marble boxes. As he drew closer, he could see that coins were scattered across the altar and overflowed from the boxes. He picked one up. The gold disc was cool and weighty. The front bore the image of a curlyaired man in profile. Ozzie could hardly believe that he was standing amidst the ancient goddess, the temple, and the casks of gold a treasure that Moriarty was willing to kill for. Ozzie felt his heart race with exhilaration, or was it fear? Did he want to be assisting Moriarty? And what might all of this mean for Ozzie, and for his friends? --- Page 161 --- Chapter 27 %The Confrontations% Wiggins, Pilar, and Elliot watched as Ozzie was back out of the hole and onto the scaf- U U folding. He raised his right hand and held the gold coin aloft. The workmen cheered at the sight of it. Moriarty plucked it from Azzie's hand and examined it. "He is asking Ozzie where it came from," Pilar told Wiggins and Elliot. "Ozzie is saying he found it in the temple and that there are more, many more. Moriarty is praising his work. Now he's ask- ing Ozzie how far the temple was from the wail of arches. Ozzie says about thirty feet. Moriarty is directing the men to start up the steam shovel. That's our cue." --- Page 162 --- "The steam shovel is next to us," Elliot said' 'They are all looking in our direction. How is Wiggins supposed to cut us loose without anyone seeing?" Before Wiggins could answer, the stocky workman walked up to the steam shovel and climbed into its compartment. Of course Master had a plan. He started the engine. The steam and hiss heightened like a dragon awakening. Holmes drove it slowiy backward. on its treads and then turned it toward the scaffolding. As the steam shovel moved, it blocked the workmen's view of the gang. "Brilliant!" Wiggins said as he reached for the knife and cut Pilar and Elliot free. When the two paused to see what Holmes would do next, Wiggins demanded, "Listen to Master and run out of 'ere. When you're back on the street, stop the first policeman you see and bring 'elp. Now go!" Pilar hesitated. "What about you?" "After I get Oz, we'll join you," Wiggins assured her. Pilar and Elliot ran around the far side of the mound and disappeared' Wiggins crept to the rear --- Page 163 --- of the steam shovel and stealthily climbed up into the driver's compartment. "I sent the others to get 'elp," he told Holmes, as he crouched down so as not to be seen. Holmes shot him a disapproving look before shifting levers and directing the steam shovel straight at the wall of arches. "You should have gone with them, Wiggins. This will be dangerous." Meanwhile, Moriarty directed Ozzie to explain to Carter the layout of the temple and its courtyard. Ozzie went into every detail, the mosaics, the golden statue of Diana, and the casks of gold coins. He described the location of the temple in relation to the wall of arches and the safest place to break through the wall without damaging the temple. He spoke excitedly, almost uncontrollably. He felt a rush of pride and discomfort. Had he said too much? Moriarty and Carter were jubilant. "You have a sharp eye for detail, boy, and a certain thoughtfulness I find unusual for someone of --- Page 164 --- your age and circumstances. When this is over, and I am the wealthiest man in all of England, I believe we need to discuss your future." Moriarty patted Ozzie on the shoulder. His touch was strangely affectionate. Ozzíe felt himself leaning into it and then recoiling. It's Moriarty, he reminded himself, England's most dangerous criminal. When Ozzie looked up, he saw the dejected expressions of the duke and several Gents, includ- ing Alistair, who appeared deflated and ineffectual sitting on the edge of his water bucket. Sweaty and covered with dirt from their labors, the rival gang did not seem impressive or even very threatening. Carter jumped down from the scaffold and directed the steam shovel toward the area Ozzie had suggested. Everyone's attention shifted to the machine, except Ozzie's. He noticed that his friends were no Ionger tied up. Ozzie had found the temple and delivered the coin, as instructed. Had Moriarty done away with them anyway? Carter removed his hat and waved the driver --- Page 165 --- forward. With the shovel arm extended. to its full height, the machine bore down on the wall. Carter motioned again with his hat, this time for the driver to retract the shovel. But it plowed ahead, just missing him as he dove out of the way. Moriarty, Ozzie, the workmen, and the Gents looked on from the scaffold as the steam shovel chugged toward them. Before they could react, the shovel siammed down on the scaffoid with full force, splintering its planks and collapsing nearly the entire structure. Ozzie managed to grab hold of a support pole that had withstood the impact. Grasping the pole with his arms and legs and suspended some twenty feet in the air, he teetered in one direction and tottered in another. He had seen Moriarty swing to the ground with surprising agility just before the shovel hit, but he could not see where he went. Ozzie was now trying to pick a good time to jump. Poles, tools, and workers rained down on the ground. Some men hollered while others lay --- Page 166 --- crushed. Some ran for cover while others were dragged out of the shovel's path. As it lurched forward again, Ozzie saw Wiggins waving to him from the steam shovel. He held his breath and jumped down onto the roof of the driver's compartment. Inside, Holmes shifted gears and pursued the workmen. Wiggins saw the duke and a few others jump out of their path. Before they knew it, the duke had climbed up into the doorway of the compartment and swung a large wrench at Wiggins. Wiggins stepped aside as the wrench hit the wall with a clang. The duke swung at him again. Wiggins ducked, and then, with all his might, rammed him with his shoulder. The duke flew from the compartment and landed with a thud on a bed of excavated boulders. Holmes, who stiil had control of the steam shovel, yelled, "Well done, my boy!" Just then, Pilar and Eliiot led Watson and Inspector Lestrade around the dirt mound. The sound of policemen's whistles echoed throughout --- Page 167 --- the cavern as uniformed officers flooded inside. They rounded up the workmen and the Gents. Lestrade managed to grab Carter. Nowhere in the melee did Ozzie see Moriarty. He turned to consider the jagged wall of the cavern. At first, he saw nothing, just the stone wall that jutted rp some forty feet to the ceiling. But then, a fiicker of light sparked along the walt. Ozzie jumped down from the steam shovel and followed it. From inside the driver,s compartment, Wiggins saw it all. He climbed out and pursued Ozzie. "Wiggins, wait!', Holmes called to him. But Wiggins ran off. From a distance, the entrance to the tunner was hidden by the jagged rock. As Ozzie approached, he observed, a hazy glow emanating from within and followed it. The tunnel zigzagged, but Ozzie moved swiftty, nearþ tripping over a top hat that lay on the ground. The dulr pressure was stitt in his head. He did not know what he would do if he caught up with Moriarty. He didnt know why he was chasing him. But he pressed on. When he --- Page 168 --- came around a particularly sharp turn, Ozzie stopped abruptly. There, resting on one knee, with a lantern in one hand and a revolver pointing straight at him in the other, was Moriarty. "Why are you following me, boy?" Ozzie strained for breath. "I don,t know." "Does anyone else know about this tunnel?', "I don't think so." "Are you tracking me or trying to leave with me?" Ozzie wasn't sure. His brain felt dult and overstuffed. His body throbbed with fatigue. What did you mean about my future?' The words poured out without Ozzie even realizing he was saying them. He saw Moriarty's face relax. He saw his lips mov_ ing, but he couldn't hear anything. He watched Moriarty lower the revolver and reach for him. Ozzie's breath grew shorter and more labored as he took a step forward. Images flashed across his mind: his mother,s face in the tintypes; Great-aunt Agatha, sitting vacantly by the fire; Hohnes in his flat, smoking --- Page 169 --- his pipe and gazing out the window; Wiggins and Pilar; and then, his mother again, sick in bed and trying to tell him something just before she died. "I think I want to leave," Ozzie managed before everything went black. --- Page 170 --- Chapter 28 %The Resolution% Ozzie came to at the feet of Holmes, Wiggins, Pilar, and Elliot. Watson knelt beside him and assisted in sitting him up. His head ached. They were back at the dig site, where most ofthe work men were being led away by the police. "I'm glad to see you have joined us again, Osgood," Holmes said matter-of-factly. "Watson, what is Your diagnosis?" "Fatigue. This tad needs a meal and a few days' rest." Watson patted him on the back. "Wiggins tells me that you attempted to apprehend Moriarty on your own. I appreciate your commitment, Osgood, but next time, request ourassistance, for few face Moriarty and survive. You --- Page 171 --- are lucky Wiggins found you and carried you out of the tunnel. "Ozzie nodded as he looked up at Holmes. What had happened back in the tunnel with Moriarty? Had Ozzie really considered going with him? When he looked at Wiggins, his friend turned away." Once again, Irregulars, your services were exceptional," Holmes continued. "You helped to turn my friend Watson here into a fine diversion. Moriarty believed that Watson had been abducted and that we were searching for him, when in fact, all of my energies were focused on finding Moriarty and this site. "I know that I deceived you by not sharing the ruse, but I suspected from the beginning that your acquaintance there" - Holmes motioned over to Alistair who was detained by one of the officers - "was an agent of Moriarty's. "Despite my efforts to keep you in the dark, you still managed to discover Watson and Tuttle at the Tower of London. They were searching for the location of the Temple of Diana. Though we did not --- Page 172 --- have the benefit of Calico Finch's journal, which directed Moriarty here, Tuttle reviewed the manuscripts that Finch had read the night of his murder' They provided some pieces to the puzzle but not the entire picture. "Tuttle suspected a few possible locations for the Temple. The catacombs of the West Norwood Cemetery was one, the old Roman well at the Tower of London another. The riddle you brought me from the cemetery was meant to be found by you; it was Watson's way of indicating his next step. "It was only through some understanding of the location of the ancient Roman structures on Tuttle's part and my contemporary knowledge of the excavations performed in this city, including my knowledge of the abandoned Tower Hill underground station and the auxiliary tunnels and chambers, that we ultimately arrived here. "I had informed Lestrade of our suspicions and asked him to stand by." "That's why he was waiting just outside when we reached the street?" said Pilar. Holmes nodded. --- Page 173 --- "What I didn't expect is that you would find this site on your own." "That was all Elliot," said Wiggins. "He followed them Gents all day without them knowin' it. Then he brought us 'ere."Elliot flushed red in the cheeks and nodded. "Fine work," said Holmes."Osgood, you are the only person in somefourteen hundred years to have gazed upon the treasure and the goddess Diana. What do you have to say?" Ozzie looked up at Holmes. In spite of all that had happened, he stitl felt anxious to discuss their unfinished business. Realizing it would have to wait, he thrust his hands into his pockets and felt something. He pulled out the gold coin.Holmes took it and examined it in awe. "A solid gold coin of a different millennium."Wiggins shook his head and stormed away from the group. While the others admired the coin, Ozzie followed him."What's the matter, mate?" Ozzie asked. --- Page 174 --- "I tracked you, and I heard your talk with Moriarty. You were thinkin' 'bout goin' with 'im, weren't you?" Ozzie felt stunned by the fact that Wiggins hadwitnessed everything and by his own behavior' He did not know which felt worse."Just before Moriarty left you, I saw 'im put that coin in your pocket. What's it all about, Oz? You thinkin' 'bout becomin' a crook? You goin' to betray me, too?" Wiggins's tone was harsh. "No," Ozzie said weakiy. "Then why so chummy with 'im?" Ozzie looked at the only true friend he had ever known. "Wiggins, without you and Pilar, I would be alone in the world'. Today, this last year' has been confusing for me' Try to understand' I don't know what I meant to say to Moriarty or why he gave me that coin. All I know is that I don't want it. I don't want the coin, and I don't want to join him. "Wiggins tilted his head and considered his friend. His tired, sick, loyal friend. After a minute, --- Page 175 --- he put an arm around ozzie's shouider and smiled. "You been a bit odd today, Oz, but I believe you. Now, let's not be too hasty about that coin, mate. We could be dinin, on roast beef tomorrow if we sell it to the museum. "Though weary, Ozzie perked up at Wiggins's change of heart."This is how I see it, Oz. We trade in that coin, and then we replace some of the damaged items in the Castle and 'ave a celebration. "A celebration?" asked Ozzie. Wiggins's eyes sparkled in the din of the cavarn. "In honor of your return and a new start for the gang and..." Wiggins paused. "What?" asked Ozzie."How 'bout pilar becomin, an official Baker Street Irregular?" The boys looked at her, eyes gleaming, as she proudly explained the events of the day to Holmes. "Yes," Ozzie agreed. "That does sound like causefor celebration." --- Page 176 --- 